
URL: http://radio.weblogs.com/0107233/categories/thanks/2005/01/03.html
 Boca council to name new dog park (Boca Raton News)  . The Boca Raton City Council this month will face a real tail-wagger of a challenge: naming the city&acirc;€™s first ever dog park. The Boca Parks and Recreation Board voted last week to recommend three possible names to the council: Boca Raton Dog Park, Canine Park, and Canine Campus. 

<p>   Indian family&acirc;€™s dog saves boy (Columbia Daily Tribune)  . Pet dragged 7-year-old to safety during waves. CHINNAKALAPET, India (AP) - "Run away!" her husband screamed from a rooftop after he spotted the colossal waves. 

<p>   Nonprofit worker gives woman a canine friend (Traverse City Record-Eagle)  . TRAVERSE CITY- Kathy Shields was inconsolable when her pet dog, Honey, had to be put to sleep earlier this year. That's when Marilyn Meteer started looking for a dog to give Shields for Christmas. 

<p>   Tell your pet to shape up (The Courier Journal)  . You've heard of the dachshund wiener dog and the teacup Chihuahua. Well, Tater, a 9-year-old miniature pinscher, "Looks like a little football," says his owner, Monnie Graves. "You know &acirc;€” fat in the middle. I keep saying he's going to pop one of these days." 

<p>   News (Austin Daily Herald)  . Call or email the Newsroom at (507) 434-2230. A Mower County Sheriff's Office canine is the best police dog in the nation for the third consecutive year. 

<p>   It's a dog-eat-everything world at Dr. Gillian Arsenault's house when they get a new miniature pinscher puppy (Medical Post Online)  . In a moment of madness, our family acquired another miniature pinscher. You see, our first miniature pinscher, our beloved Finnegan, had shed his collar and tag and gone wandering. 

<p>   State's 1st pet blood bank will save lives of best friends (Arizona Daily Star)  . Murphy, an Australian shepherd mix, was diagnosed with cancer in November and suffered from internal bleeding. His only chance at survival: a blood transfusion and surgery. But Murphy's veterinarian 

<p>   Keeping pets safe this winter is a matter of COMMON SENSE (South Coast Today)  . Brrrrrr -- it's cold outside! Winter's fearsome weather creates many concerns for responsible pet owners. According to Dr. Kimberly Wadsworth, an associate at Anchor Animal Hospital in Dartmouth, providing appropriate care for household pets during winter is simply a matter of "using common sense." 

<p>   Pet came to rescue when mom couldn't save son (Omaha World-Herald)  . CHINNAKALAPET, India (AP) - "Run away!" Sangeeta's husband screamed from a rooftop after he spotted the colossal waves. It was a simple command that smothered Sangeeta in a nightmarish dilemma: She had three sons, but just two arms. 

<p>   Four-legged pet hailed a tsunami hero (Canoe)  . CHINNAKALAPET, India -- "Run away!" her husband screamed from a rooftop after he spotted the colossal waves. It was a simple command that smothered Sangeeta in a nightmarish dilemma: She had three sons, but just two arms. 

<p>   Pit bulls have area neighborhood nervous (Gainesville Sun)  . Dog trainer Michelle Dunlap, owner of Gainesville Canine Academy, scratches the belly of Phoenix, a pit bull she has been working with for 1 1/2 years. 

<p>   9/11 rescue dog becomes guinea pig for human ills (Billings Gazette)  . MIAMI - Three years ago, Mizu the rescue dog helped search for bodies in the smoldering remains of the World Trade Center. There at ground zero, Mizu, who works for Miami-Dade (Fla.) Fire Rescue, spent two weeks sniffing the rubble for signs of survivors - or their remains. 

<p>   Shop, eat, browse and be charmed in Clinton, Hunterdon County (Courier Post)  . Molly's going incognito as she strides down Main Street in the town of Clinton. It's not exactly deliberate: If you stop to engage the 4-year-old Tibetan terrier, she'll gladly shake back the pepper-and-salt mane that shields her face from view and give you a heartbreaker of a canine smile. 

<p>   Buried treasure for dogs who dig (Pioneer Press)  . This week, answers to your questions are from renowned dog trainers who attended the 11th annual conference of the Association of Pet Dog Trainers in Denver. I was honored to deliver the keynote address to the more than 1,000 attendees at the largest gathering of its kind in the world. 

<p>   HAVE DOG TREATS, WILL TRAVEL (San Jose Mercury News)  . When she was laid off earlier this year, Cecilia Saleme turned to therapy -- dog therapy, that is. She launched her own business in which she counsels dogs in behavioral changes. Hey, dogs have issues, too. 

<p>   Blessing of the pets (Selma Times-Journal)  . All things bright and beautiful, all creatures great and small, all things wise and wonderful, the Lord God made them all. Each little flower that opens, each little bird that sings, he made their glowing colors, he made their tiny wings. 

<p>   Main News (West Bloomfield Eccentric)  . Time spent at an Oakland County Park can be a fun experience, even for one of the workers. 

<p>   Dogged duo praised for saving feline friend (Manchester Online)  . CANINE duo Gizmo and Poppy have been named the region's bravest dogs, after rescuing their feline friend Cobweb from a fox. Rather than fighting like cat and dog, the brother and sister pair of Jack Russell/shih tzu crosses get on famously with Cobweb the cat at their Rossendale home. 

<p>   January (Northern News Services Yellowknife Canada)  . Festivities to mark the first night of 2004 were branded a fizzle as Yellowknifers complained of a lack of fireworks. Four years had passed since City Hall had been part of New Year's festivities. Residents saw it was time for a change. 

<p>   01/01/05 (Venice Gondolier) 
