
URL: http://www.aboutmyjob.com/main.php3?action=displayarticle&artid=1539
 Home   |   View All Articles   |   View All Categories   |   Submit Your Story!   |   Make Money with a Job Blog 

<p> 

<p>&quot;Mcdonalds worker......older worker dealing with teenagers&quot; 

<p>   I had started working at Mcdonalds in October of 2003 i am 41 years old   i had been laid off from a good paying job and was working one part time job but needed some extra income First the didnt even have a uniform for me i am of average size and not over weight they made me wear a womens button down shirt that had no tails to tuck in and i was forever being told to tuck my shirt in .   They let the teenagers get away with murder i was working like a fool to clean up cause i was a closer while these kids were throwing french fries at each other and buns that were dropped on the floor.then the assistant manager who was 23 the only thing she should be allowed to manage was her personal checking account was having a bad day and i was sweeping up trash from the dining room floor and the threw a bunch of fries on the floor at where i had just swept and said here have some garbage.   the worst part was when they made me get down on my hands and knees and scrub the basebords in the dining and lobby area climbing under the booths and tables i was hired for GRILL work but i was always the one doing dishes and scrubbing the resrooms    they cater to lazy people i had worked there over a month and had two breaks the first night i started and on 1 saturday nightand and that is against the law it is not like they are paying you for it think they hide the people that arent Mcdonalds model material    in the back i worked with another guy close to my age but he had some tatoos on his arms so they hid him in the back too i am balding and slightly over weight and my teeth arent perfect so i was more or less a garbageman    one young teenagers aspically made fun of me constantly saying he wasnt as stupid as I looked so i told the store manager nothing happened so i told the kid when you turn 18 im coming back to kick your ass he never bothered me again I told the store manager you may let them kids make fools out of you but they wont do it to me you will just about do anything to make money when you have a mortgage to pay but not work for mcdonalds  

<p> 

<p>  Comments (18)   /   Post Comment 

<p> 

<p>  Related Articles: 

<p>  McDonalds.....All about the team 
  Fast Food Cashier......silly stuff 
  Sad stories at the Irish pub 
  10 years of retail sales...kept me out of trouble, but politicky with no sense of accomplishment 
  Making peanuts and getting digits, but life is too short for a job that sucks 
  Planet Hollywood Waiter.......Great Experience. 
  More than just a temp job....Mickey D's 
  Mickey D's... its a great first job....fast food worker 
  My Mcdonalds Story...The Straight Truth 
   I'll tell you how it REALLY is!....McDonalds manager 
  I'd love to change my whole life.....Computer Software / Contract Engineer 
  McDonalds Sucks, lets make it public...store manager 
  McJob... Crew prospective 
  unclean conditions....mcdonalds crew 
  horny and lazy coworkers....McDonald's crew member 
  robbed at knifepoint.....McDonald's managment 
  McDonald's Crew Leader - The Terrible Truth 
  Mainframe Job Blues.......Mainframe programmer 
   My Job at McDonald's (Not an exaggreted version)....manager 
  Put me in the McDonalds I'm lovin it Commercial...NOT....McDonald's worker 
  Five Myths and Five Tips for Breaking Into a Career as a Fashion Designer 
  Yet Another Mcdonalds Story...crew members 
  McDonald's arches...... it's really the real world!! 
  Mcdonalds I'm lovin it commercial has it wrong.....crew person 
  Keep going back, McDonalds got me by it's claws!!! 
  The Scottish McD's Experience....mcdonalds crew member 
   - The eye opener to real leaders! - McDonalds Manager 
  The golden arches are as kind as a nazi concentration camp......McDonald's hidden secrets. 
  few hours and minimum wage....AMC Theatres employee 
  Sound Designer / Sound Tech / Audio Engineer 
   I tell it like it is if you work hard!.... AUSSIE MACCAS-crew trainner 
  McDonald’s!! I’m Hating It....Mcdonalds worker 
  My Bad Experiences With Price Chopper...grocery store employee 
  I like my job!.....My work at Mcdonalds 
  A McGreat Place To Work 
  Gay Bashing.....MY McDonalds Story (I'm Hatin' It) 
  dont know what all you americans are on about....McDonalds is an awesome job!!!!!!! i luv it 
  What is wrong with the American Mcdonald's'? 
  Management trainee job..License to be yelled at! 
  Mc nasty....hostile environment for a white man 
  Crew Person....bosses are the best but no time 
  Salary note enough for Surgical Slaves....surgical technologist job 
  a good first place to work... mcdonalds job 
