
URL: http://www.katyfreeway.org/contractB_TCP.html
 Traffic Control Plan (TCP). 
   The TCP is divided into phases and steps. Listed below is a description of each phase and step of construction to be accomplished. See the Plans for additional information. 

<p>   Pre-Construction Phase. 

<p> A 2-in. ACP overlay shall be applied to all mainlanes, diamond lanes and ramps including paved shoulders. Full pavement markings matching the existing markings shall be placed on this new overlay. Work shall also begin on the relocation of all utilities possible on both sides of the project.  

<p>   Phase I - Step 1 

<p> The Contractor shall begin with the storm sewer outfalls and trunk line on the South side of the project and the relocation of the existing high mast lighting system on the east end of the project. This will be followed by the construction of 4 cross culverts and then the new north side trunk line and westbound frontage road as shown in the plans. The new fiber optic cable trunk line along the westbound frontage road shall be installed as early as possible. Temporary connections shall be built between the new westbound frontage road and the existing frontage road as shown in the plans. The eastbound frontage road shall be widened to the inside to accommodate 2 lanes of traffic during construction of the outside 2 lanes of the new frontage road. 

<p>   Phase I - Step 2 

<p> The new westbound frontage road shall be opened to traffic while maintaining access to Mason, Fry, and Barker Cypress Roads. The eastbound frontage road traffic shall be shifted to the widened pavement and the outside 2 lanes of the new eastbound frontage road, except for the areas at the Mason, Fry and Barker-Cypress access roads, shall be built. The outside 2 lanes of the access roads shall also be built. The areas of Mason and Fry Roads South of the access roads shall be built in 3 sub-steps.  

<p>   Phase I - Step 3 

<p> The eastbound frontage road traffic shall be shifted to the new outside lanes. Build the inside lanes of the eastbound frontage road in sections to allow for the entering and exiting traffic from the mainlanes. Build new temporary ramps front the eastbound mainlanes to the eastbound frontage road to allow for the completion of the eastbound frontage road. Build the inside lanes of the access lanes as shown in the plans. 

<p>   Phase I - Step 4 

<p> Shift traffic entering and exiting from the mainlanes to the newly completed ramps and complete the eastbound frontage road except in the access road areas. Open the eastbound frontage road to 3 lanes where shown in the plans. 

<p>   Phase II - Step 1 

<p> Build the northern portion of the new mainlanes over N. Westgreen Blvd. and S. Greenhouse Road. This includes the northern portion of the bridge over the T101 channel. Build temporary detours off both ends of the new pavement back to the existing pavement as shown in the plans. 

<p>   Phase II - Step 2 

<p> Shift westbound mainlane traffic to the new pavement over N. Westgreen Blvd. and S. Greenhouse Road. Build the center portion of the new mainlanes over N. Westgreen Blvd. including part of the bridge over the T101 channel.  

<p>   Phase II - Step 3 

<p> Shift eastbound mainlane traffic to the new middle portion of the mainlanes. Build the southern portion of the new mainlanes over N. Westgreen Blvd. including the T101 channel and S. Greenhouse Road. Also complete the N. Westgreen and S. Greenhouse Road intersections and open them to traffic. Build 2 temporary connections along the side of Fry Road north from the westbound frontage road. 

<p>    Phase III - Step 1 

<p> Close the westbound frontage road direct access to Fry Road. Build as much on the new westbound mainlanes and bridge at Fry Road as possible adjacent to Fry Road and tie them to the previously constructed mainlanes. Then close Fry Road to traffic and demolish the existing Fry Road Bridge over the old railroad location. Close the IH10 mainlanes during a weekend and demolish the Fry Road Bridge over the IH10 mainlanes. Build remainder of the northern portion of the new mainlanes over the proposed Fry Road. Build the portions of Fry Road north of the westbound frontage road and south of the eastbound frontage road and part of the remainder of the eastbound frontage road and Fry Road. Build the new westbound mainlanes over Park Ten Blvd. including part of the new bridge over Park Ten Blvd. Build temporary ties from the new mainlane pavement back to the existing mainlanes.  

<p>   Phase III - Step 2 

<p> Open the new portions of Fry Road north of the westbound frontage road and south of the eastbound frontage road. Open the new portion of the eastbound frontage road. Shift the westbound mainlane traffic at Fry Road and Park Ten Blvd. to the new westbound lanes and build the center portion of the roadway over Fry Road and Park Ten Blvd. Complete the eastbound frontage road at the Fry Access Road connections and complete the access roads and open them to 2-way traffic. 

<p>   Phase III - Step 3 

<p> Shift the eastbound mainlane traffic at Fry Road and Park Ten Blvd. to the new center portion of the roadway. Complete the Fry Road and Park Ten Blvd. intersections and the eastbound frontage road at Fry Road and open the intersections to traffic as the first item of work in this step. Build the southern portion of the mainlanes at Fry Road and Park Ten Blvd. Build temporary connections along each side of Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road north of the westbound frontage road. 

<p>    Phase IV - Step 1 

<p> Shift mainlane traffic to the south in the areas adjacent to the ends of the Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road gaps. Close westbound frontage road direct access to Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road. Build as much of the westbound mainlanes and bridges at Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road as possible while maintaining cross traffic on Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road. Then close Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road and demolish the existing bridges over the old railroad location. Using weekend closures of the mainlanes, demolish the Mason Road Bridge, and a portion of the Barker-Cypress Road bridge, over the existing mainlanes. Build the portions of Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road north of the westbound frontage road and south of the eastbound frontage road. Also build a portion of the remainder of the eastbound frontage road at Mason Road. Open them to traffic. Build the northern portion of the new mainlanes over Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road including portions of the bridges over Mason Road, Ma son Creek and Barker- Cypress Road. 

<p>   Phase IV - Step 2 

<p> Open the new portions of Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road north of the westbound frontage road and south of the eastbound frontage road. Shift the westbound mainlane traffic to the new northern portion of the mainlanes over Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road. Demolish additional portions of the Barker-Cypress Road Bridge over the existing mainlanes. Build the center portion of the mainalnes over Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road. 

<p>   Phase IV - Step 3 

<p> Shift the eastbound mainlane traffic to the new center portion of the new pavement over Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road and build the remainder of the Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road undercrossings and open them to traffic. Demolish the remainder of the Barker-Cypress Road bridge. Build the southern portion of the mainlanes over Mason Road and Barker-Cypress Road including the bridges over Mason Road, Mason Creek and Barker-Cypress and open them to traffic. 

<p>  
 Shift traffic into its final configuration as shown in the plans and /or as directed by the Engineer and install the final median barriers and pavement markings except at the east end as shown on the Traffic Control Plans.  
  
