
URL: http://www.myclan.com/clans/Balfour_152/default.php
 

<p>The lands of Balfour, or Bal-orr, lie in the parish of Markinch in Fife. The Orr is a tributary of the River Leven. According to tradition, the lands were given to Siward, a Northumbrian, during the reign of Duncan I. The earliest dependable record of the name is a charter of William the Lion in favour of Michael de Balfour around 1196. Sir Duncan de Balfour supported the cause of Sir William Wallace and was killed at the Battle of Blackironside in 1298, although the engagement was a great victory for the Scots. Sir John Balfour of Balfour died in 1375 and his estates passed to his only daughter, Margaret, wife of Sir Robert de Bethune. The Bethunes of Balfour were to flourish and figure prominently in Scottish history through such personalities as Cardinal Bethune and Mary Beaton, celebrated as one of the &#145;four Maries&#146;, the ladies-in-waiting of Mary, Queen of Scots. The Balfours continued through the descendants of Adam, the brother of Sir John Balfour, who married into the powerful Macduff Earls of Fife. Adam died of wounds sustained at the Battle of Durham in 1346 and his son was brought up in the household of the earl. He prospered greatly by his family connections and from him descend the Balfours of Denmylne, Forret, Torry and Kinloch. James Balfour of Denmylne was killed at the siege of Roxburgh in 1460 and his son John died, along with the greater part of the Scottish nobility, at the Battle of Flodden in 1513. Sir Michael Balfour was Comptroller of the Household to Charles I and fought for the king&#146;s cause during the civil war. Sir James Balfour, son of Sir Michael Balfour of Denmylne, was created Lord Lyon, King of Arms, in June 1630. He was a distinguished heraldic scholar and antiquary who wrote a number of important treatises on heraldry. He was also a chronicler of the Scottish monarchy, and his Annals and Short Passages of State was published in book form almost two centuries later, in 1824. Sir Andrew Balfour, Baronet, also of the house of Denmylne, was a distinguished botanist and founder of the Botanic Garden of Edinburgh (which now flourishes as the Royal Scottish Botanical Garden). He was also a noted physician and the first president of the Royal College of Physicians in Scotland. He died in 1694.  

<p>&nbsp; 

<p>  
