
URL: http://lyrics.rockmagic.net/lyrics/led_zeppelin/led_zeppelin_iv_1971.html
 

<p> Hey, hey, mama, said the way you move   Gonna make you sweat, gonna make you groove.   Oh, oh, child, way you shake that thing   Gonna make you burn, gonna make you sting.   Hey, hey, baby, when you walk that way   Watch your honey drip, can't keap away.   *Ah yeah, ah yeah, ah, ah, ah.   Ah yeah, ah yeah, ah, ah, ah.   I gotta roll, can't stand still,   Got a flame in my heart, can't get my fill,   Eyes that shine burning red,   Dreams of you all thru my head.   Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah.   Hey, baby, oh, baby, pretty baby,   La la la la la la la.   (Repeat)   Didn't take too long 'fore I found out   What people mean my down and out.   Spent my money, took my car,   Started tellin' her friends she wants to be a star.   I don't know but I been told   A big legged woman ain't got no soul.   * Chorus   All I ask for when I pray,   Steady rollin' woman gonna come my way.   Need a woman gonna hold my hand   And tell me no lies, make me a happy man. 

<p>  Rock And Roll 

<p> It's been a long time since I Rock and Rolled,   It's been a long time since I did the Stroll.   Ooh, let me get it back, let me get it back,   Let me get it back, baby, where I come from.   It's been a long time, been a long time,   Been a long lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely time.   Yes it has.   It's been a long time since the book of love,   I can't count the tears of a life with no love.   Carry me back, carry me back,   Carry me back, baby, where I come from.   It's been a long time, been a long time,   Been a long lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely time.   Seems so long since we walked in the moonlight,   Making vows that just can't work right.   Open your arms, opens your arms,   Open your arms, baby, let my love come running in.   It's been a long time, been a long time,   Been a long lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely, lonely time. 

<p>  The Battle Of Evermore 

<p> Queen of Light took her bow   And then she turned to go,   The Prince of Peace embraced the gloom   And walked the night alone.   Oh, dance in the dark of night,   Sing to the morn - ing light.   The dark Lord rides in force tonight   And time will tell us all.   Oh, throw down your plow and hoe,   Rest not to lock your homes.   Side by side we wait the might   Of the darkest of them all.   I hear the horses' thunder   Down in the valley blow,   I'm waiting for the angels of Avalon,   Waiting for the eastern glow.   The apples of the valley hold,   The seas of happiness,   The ground is rich from tender care,   Repay, do not forget, no, no.   Oh,-------danceinthedarkofnight,   sing to the morning light.   The apples turn to brown and black,   The tyrant's face is red.   Oh the war is common cry,   Pick up you swords and fly.   The sky is filled with good and bad   That mortals never know.   Oh, well, the night is long   The beads of time pass slow,   Tired eyes on the sunrise,   Waiting for the eastern glow.   The pain of war cannot exceed   The woe of aftermath,   The drums will shake the castle wall,   The ring wraiths ride in black,   Ride on.   Sing as you raise your bow,   Shoot straighter than before.   No comfort has the fire at night   That lights the face so cold.   Oh dance in the dark of night,   Sing to the mornin' light.   The magic runes are writ in gold   To bring the balance back.   Bring it back.   At last the sun is shining,   The clouds of blue roll by,   With flames from the dragon of darkness   The sunlight blinds his eyes. 

<p>  Stairway To Heaven 

<p> (J.Page, R.Plant)   There's a lady who's sure   All that glitters is gold   And she's buying a stairway to heaven.   When she gets there she knows   If the stores are all closed   With a word she can get what she came for.   Ooh, ooh, and she's buying a stairway to heaven.   There's a sign on the wall   But she wants to be sure   'Cause you know sometimes words have two meanings.   In a tree by the brook   There's a songbird who sings,   Sometimes all of our thoughts are misgiven.   Ooh, it makes me wonder,   Ooh, it makes me wonder.   There's a feeling I get   When I look to the west,   And my spirit is crying for leaving.   In my thoughts I have seen   Rings of smoke through the trees,   And the voices of those who standing looking.   Ooh, it makes me wonder,   Ooh, it really makes me wonder.   And it's whispered that soon   If we all call the tune   Then the piper will lead us to reason.   And a new day will dawn   For those who stand long   And the forests will echo with laughter.   If there's a bustle in your hedgerow   Don't be alarmed now,   It's just a spring clean for the May queen.   Yes, there are two paths you can go by   But in the long run   There's still time to change the road you're on.   And it makes me wonder.   Your head is humming and it won't go   In case you don't know,   The piper's calling you to join him,   Dear lady, can you hear the wind blow,   And did you know   Your stairway lies on the whispering wind.   And as we wind on down the road   Our shadows taller than our soul.   There walks a lady we all know   Who shines white light and wants to show   How ev'rything still turns to gold.   And if you listen very hard   The tune will come to you at last.   When all are one and one is all   To be a rock and not to roll.   And she's buying a stairway to heaven. 

<p>  Misty Mountain Hop 

<p> Walkin' in the park just the other day, Baby,   What do you, what do you think I saw?   Crowds of people sittin' on the grass with flowers in their hair said,   "Hey, Boy, do you wanna score?"   And you know how it is;   I really don't know what time it was, woh, oh,   So I asked them if I could stay awhile.   I didn't notice but it had got very dark and I was really,   Really out of my mind.   Just then a policeman stepped up to me and asked us said,   "Please, hey, would we care to all get in line,   Get in line."   Well you know,   They asked us to stay for tea and have some fun,   Oh, oh, he said that his friends would all drop by, ooh.   Why don't you take a good look at yourself and describe what you see,   And Baby, Baby, Baby, do you like it?   There you sit, sitting spare like a book on a shelf rustin'   Ah, not trying to fight it.   You really don't care if they're coming, oh, oh,   I know that it's all a state of mind, ooh.   If you go down in the streets today, Baby, you better,   You better open your eyes.   Folk down there really don't care, really don't care, don't care, really don't   Which, which way the pressure lies,   So I've decided what I'm gonna do now.   So I'm packing my bags for the Misty Mountains   Where the spirits go now,   Over the hills where the spirits fly, ooh.   I really don't know. 

<p>  Four Sticks 

<p> Oh, Baby, it's cryin' time,   Oh, Baby, I got to fly.   Got to try to find a way,   Got to try to get away,   'Cause you know I gotta get away from you, Babe.   Oh, Baby, the river's red,   Oh, Baby, in my head.   There's a funny feelin' goin' on,   I don't think I can hold out long.   *And when the owls cry in the night,   Oh, Baby, Baby, when the pines begin to cry,   Baby, Baby, Baby, how do you feel?   If the river runs dry, Baby,   How do you feel?   Craze, Baby, the rainbow's end,   Mmm, Baby, it's just a den   For those who hide,   Who hide their love to depths of life   And ruin dreams that we all knew so, Babe.   * Chorus 

<p>  Going To California 

<p> Spent my days with a woman unkind,   Smoked my stuff and drank all my wine.   Made up my mind to make a new start,   Going To California with an aching in my heart.   Someone told me there's a girl out there   With love in her eyes and flowers in her hair.   Took my chances on a big jet plane,   Never let them tell you that they're all the same.   The sea was red and the sky was grey,   Wondered how tomorrow could ever follow today.   The mountains and the canyons started to tremble and shake   As the children of the sun began to awake.   Seems that the wrath of the Gods   Got a punch on the nose and it started to flow;   I think I might be sinking.   Throw me a line if I reach it in time   I'll meet you up there where the path   Runs straight and high.   To find a queen without a king;   They say she plays guitar and cries and sings.   La la la la   Ride a white mare in the footsteps of dawn   Tryin' to find a woman who's never, never, never been born.   Standing on a hill in my mountain of dreams,   Telling myself it's not as hard, hard, hard as it seems. 

<p>  When The Levee Breaks 

<p> If it keeps on rainin', levee's goin' to break,   If it keeps on rainin', levee's goin' to break,   When The Levee Breaks I'll have no place to stay.   Mean old levee taught me to weep and moan,   Lord, mean old levee taught me to weep and moan,   Got what it takes to make a mountain man leave his home,   Oh, well, oh, well, oh, well.   Don't it make you feel bad   When you're tryin' to find your way home,   You don't know which way to go?   If you're goin' down South   They go no work to do,   If you don't know about Chicago.   Cryin' won't help you, prayin' won't do you no good,   Now, cryin' won't help you, prayin' won't do you no good,   When the levee breaks, mama, you got to move.   All last night sat on the levee and moaned,   All last night sat on the levee and moaned,   Thinkin' 'bout me baby and my happy home.   Going, go'n' to Chicago,   Go'n' to Chicago,   Sorry but I can't take you. 
