
URL: http://radio.weblogs.com/0107233/categories/thanks/2005/01/03.html
<h>Web Services, people, software providers, writers and resources
 who have made this weblog more useful. A long overdue category...
 plus resources to never track of... First things first: this
 is not for "public consumption" this feed is raw, unedited bits
 of news gathered from the Web, direct quotes from savy bloggers.
 This is not meant as a weblog... noooo.... this is my personal
 treasure chest of knowledge... That said, I'm NOT WRITING it.
 got it? It's not for review or anything else... I'm hoarding
 it to a space on the web where I can go back and find it. Why,
 you say? : stupid computer, stupid browser, stupid bookmarks
 can't track this stuff like a Radioland feed can ... and having
 it on the web is so useful. 

<p>Boca council to name new dog park (Boca Raton News). The Boca
 Raton City Council this month will face a real tail-wagger of
 a challenge: naming the city&acirc;€™s first ever dog park.
 The Boca Parks and Recreation Board voted last week to recommend
 three possible names to the council: Boca Raton Dog Park, Canine
 Park, and Canine Campus.

<p>Indian family&acirc;€™s dog saves boy (Columbia Daily Tribune).
 Pet dragged 7-year-old to safety during waves. CHINNAKALAPET,
 India (AP) - "Run away!" her husband screamed from a rooftop
 after he spotted the colossal waves.

<p>Nonprofit worker gives woman a canine friend (Traverse City Record-Eagle).
 TRAVERSE CITY- Kathy Shields was inconsolable when her pet dog,
 Honey, had to be put to sleep earlier this year. That's when
 Marilyn Meteer started looking for a dog to give Shields for
 Christmas.

<p>Tell your pet to shape up (The Courier Journal). You've heard
 of the dachshund wiener dog and the teacup Chihuahua. Well,
 Tater, a 9-year-old miniature pinscher, "Looks like a little
 football," says his owner, Monnie Graves. "You know &acirc;€”
 fat in the middle. I keep saying he's going to pop one of these
 days."

<p>News (Austin Daily Herald). Call or email the Newsroom at (507)
 434-2230. A Mower County Sheriff's Office canine is the best
 police dog in the nation for the third consecutive year.

<p>State's 1st pet blood bank will save lives of best friends (Arizona
 Daily Star). Murphy, an Australian shepherd mix, was diagnosed
 with cancer in November and suffered from internal bleeding.
 His only chance at survival: a blood transfusion and surgery.
 But Murphy's veterinarian

<p>Keeping pets safe this winter is a matter of COMMON SENSE (South
 Coast Today). Brrrrrr -- it's cold outside! Winter's fearsome
 weather creates many concerns for responsible pet owners. According
 to Dr. Kimberly Wadsworth, an associate at Anchor Animal Hospital
 in Dartmouth, providing appropriate care for household pets
 during winter is simply a matter of "using common sense."

<p>Pet came to rescue when mom couldn't save son (Omaha World-Herald).
 CHINNAKALAPET, India (AP) - "Run away!" Sangeeta's husband screamed
 from a rooftop after he spotted the colossal waves. It was a
 simple command that smothered Sangeeta in a nightmarish dilemma:
 She had three sons, but just two arms.

<p>Four-legged pet hailed a tsunami hero (Canoe). CHINNAKALAPET,
 India -- "Run away!" her husband screamed from a rooftop after
 he spotted the colossal waves. It was a simple command that
 smothered Sangeeta in a nightmarish dilemma: She had three sons,
 but just two arms.

<p>Pit bulls have area neighborhood nervous (Gainesville Sun). Dog
 trainer Michelle Dunlap, owner of Gainesville Canine Academy,
 scratches the belly of Phoenix, a pit bull she has been working
 with for 1 1/2 years.

<p>9/11 rescue dog becomes guinea pig for human ills (Billings Gazette).
 MIAMI - Three years ago, Mizu the rescue dog helped search for
 bodies in the smoldering remains of the World Trade Center.
 There at ground zero, Mizu, who works for Miami-Dade (Fla.)
 Fire Rescue, spent two weeks sniffing the rubble for signs of
 survivors - or their remains.

<p>Shop, eat, browse and be charmed in Clinton, Hunterdon County
 (Courier Post). Molly's going incognito as she strides down
 Main Street in the town of Clinton. It's not exactly deliberate:
 If you stop to engage the 4-year-old Tibetan terrier, she'll
 gladly shake back the pepper-and-salt mane that shields her
 face from view and give you a heartbreaker of a canine smile.

<p>Buried treasure for dogs who dig (Pioneer Press). This week,
 answers to your questions are from renowned dog trainers who
 attended the 11th annual conference of the Association of Pet
 Dog Trainers in Denver. I was honored to deliver the keynote
 address to the more than 1,000 attendees at the largest gathering
 of its kind in the world.

<p>HAVE DOG TREATS, WILL TRAVEL (San Jose Mercury News). When she
 was laid off earlier this year, Cecilia Saleme turned to therapy
 -- dog therapy, that is. She launched her own business in which
 she counsels dogs in behavioral changes. Hey, dogs have issues,
 too.

<p>Blessing of the pets (Selma Times-Journal). All things bright
 and beautiful, all creatures great and small, all things wise
 and wonderful, the Lord God made them all. Each little flower
 that opens, each little bird that sings, he made their glowing
 colors, he made their tiny wings.

<p>Main News (West Bloomfield Eccentric). Time spent at an Oakland
 County Park can be a fun experience, even for one of the workers.

<p>Dogged duo praised for saving feline friend (Manchester Online).
 CANINE duo Gizmo and Poppy have been named the region's bravest
 dogs, after rescuing their feline friend Cobweb from a fox.
 Rather than fighting like cat and dog, the brother and sister
 pair of Jack Russell/shih tzu crosses get on famously with Cobweb
 the cat at their Rossendale home.

<p>January (Northern News Services Yellowknife Canada). Festivities
 to mark the first night of 2004 were branded a fizzle as Yellowknifers
 complained of a lack of fireworks. Four years had passed since
 City Hall had been part of New Year's festivities. Residents
 saw it was time for a change.

<p>01/01/05 (Venice Gondolier). It's clear from the moment you walk
 through Jerry Rustler's front door, you have entered the domain
 of a pet lover. Walls are filled with photos of his present
 and past dogs. Life-size ceramic Dalmations and tigers eye you
 as you walk from one room to the next.

<p>27-Nov-04 Gnews2RSS closed down. Gnews2RSS has closed down due
 to bandwidth constraints. If you're using Gnews2rss you presumably
 find it useful. Please email Google asking them to produce RSS
 directly out of Google News Search. Feel free to host it yourself

<p>
Dogs don't lie: Reliance on the information this site contains
 is at your own risk. COPYRIGHTS &#169;2004 Dog News - Other
 contributors retain their own copyright. Material on this Dog
 News site may not be published or broadcast without express
 permission, except as authorized by the Creative Commons Attribution
 Sharealike License: in a nutshell, For Profit companies or websites
 do NOT have any authorization or permission to republish any
 of this site or its newsfeed. All rights reserved.

<p>
Dog News is not affiliated with linked stories on other websites
 and is not responsible for their content. All links for news
 stories expire eventually... and we're too busy picking up dog
 poop to bother fixing them... 


