
URL: http://www.cdc.gov/youthcampaign/research/resources.htm
<h>Evaluation Resources

<p>Longitudinal Survey (PDF 200K)
 The Youth Media Campaign Longitudinal
 Survey (YMCLS) is an annual national telephone survey of young
 people, ages 9 to 13 years, and their parents. Working with
 research corporation Westat, CDC designed the YMCLS to measure
 the physical activity-related beliefs, attitudes and behaviors
 of youth and their parents and to monitor youth exposure to
 the VERB campaign. Survey results guide the campaign's evolution
 and provide important information about the impact of the VERB
 campaign.

<p>A Computer-Assisted Telephone Interviewing technique was used
 to administer the survey. The appearance and structure of the
 survey reflects the software that is used for survey delivery.
 The interviewer reads all of the text — questions and response
 options — except for those in all capital letters. Words or
 phrases that are in all capital letters are automatically displayed
 to the interviewer and indicate possible coding options. Text
 in parentheses at the end of a response category indicates a
 skip pattern (e.g., GO TO S2).

<p>We administered the first YMCLS (YMCLS 2002) during spring 2002
 before the launch of the national VERB campaign, to provide
 the baseline for future studies. The baseline YMCLS 2002 was
 administered to more than 3,000 9-13 year olds and their parents
 nationally. 

<p>Continuous Tracking Survey (PDF 265K).
 The Continuous Tracking
 Survey is an ongoing survey that collects data from a sample
 of 9-13 year olds to better understand their impressions of
 the campaign and its messages. The survey provides campaign
 planners and brand strategists with information about how widely
 the campaign is being seen and how it is being understood. The
 appearance and format of the survey reflects the interview structure
 that is used. 

<p>VERB’s Formative Research Process (PDF 150K)
 This document describes
 the VERB campaign's concept and message testing qualitative
 methodology. It contains sample screening questionnaires and
 moderator guides. 

<p>Logic Model
 Logic models are often developed for public health
 programs and campaigns. A logic model links campaign inputs
 and activities with campaign outcomes. The model can be used
 as a tool to:

<l>Identify the short-term, intermediate, and long-term outcomes
 for the campaign;

<l>Link those outcomes to each other and to campaign activities;

<l>Select outcomes to measure depending on the stage of the campaign’s
 development;

<l>Show how it may take time before long-term outcomes can be associated
 with the campaign.

<h>Formative Research Reports

<p>Exploratory Research Reports

<p>New!Inspiring Children’s Physical Activity: Exploratory Research
 with Parents(PDF 500K)
This research helped understand factors
 that would influence parents to encourage their child’s participation
 in physical activity and evaluate a range of concepts for promoting
 physical activity. The report summarizes the results of focus
 groups and in-home interviews conducted with mothers of 9- to
 13-year-olds in 2003.

<p>Life’s First Great Crossroad(PDF 400K)
Summarizes findings about
 the lives of today’s tweens, including the choices they make
 and how friends, family, and media help shape their behavior.
 

<p>Message Strategy Research to Support Development of the Youth
 Media Campaign(PDF 1.3MB)
Presents insights — from interviews
 and focus groups with tweens, parents, other tween influencers,
 and industry professionals — that helped guide the development
 of messages for the Youth Media Campaign. 

<p>Youth Media Campaign Summary of Interviews Regarding Kids with
 Disabilities(PDF 165K)
Summarizes interviews conducted to learn
 most effective ways of including kids with disabilities in concept
 and message testing and in future campaign messages and events.
 Interviews, conducted from July through August 2002, were with
 individuals who have developed messages for people with disabilities
 or who are from organizations that promote physical activity
 among people with disabilities. 

<p>Executive Summary of the General Market Formative Research to
 Support Brand Development for the Youth Media Campaign(PDF 66K)
 
Summarizes findings of 25 in-home interviews conducted with
 tweens and their parents and influencers to better understand
 the motivations, images, and language that connect with both
 tweens and their families. 

<p>Executive Summary of the Hispanic/Latino Formative Immersion
 Research to Support Brand Development for the Youth Media Campaign(PDF
 71K)
Summarizes findings of in-depth interviews with low-income
 Hispanics/Latinos who are mostly Spanish language-dominant;
 migrant families and new immigrants were included. Research
 was conducted to better understand the Hispanic/Latino audience
 segment of the Youth Media Campaign. 

<p>VERB’s Formative Research Process (PDF 150K) 
This document describes
 the VERB campaign's concept and message testing qualitative
 methodology. It contains sample screening questionnaires and
 moderator guides. 

<p>New!Lessons Learned from VERB™: Findings for General Market Tweens
 and their Parents (PDF 305K)
 This report presents recurrent
 themes and recommendations based on three years of concept and
 message testing among general market tweens and parents. 

<p>VERB™ — A Social Marketing Campaign to Increase Physical Activity
 Among Youth
 VERB applies sophisticated commercial marketing
 techniques to address the public health problem of physical
 inactivity of American children, using the social marketing
 principles of product, price, place, and promotion. This article
 describes how the principles of social marketing were applied
 to develop the strategies and tactics of the VERB campaign.
 

<p>The VERB™ Campaign Logic Model: A Tool for Planning and Evaluation
 
 This article describes the VERB campaign logic model and how
 it is used as a tool to share information, to facilitate program
 planning, and to provide direction for evaluation. 

<p>Commentary on the VERB™ Campaign — Perspectives on Social Marketing
 to Encourage Physical Activity Among Youth
 In this commentary,
 Adrian Bauman, PhD, an international expert on physical activity
 and media campaigns, provides a perspective on the VERB campaign
 as an example of social marketing to encourage physical activity
 among youth. 

<p>Physical Activity Levels Among Children Aged 9–13 Years — United
 States, 2002
 As part of the VERB campaign evaluation, CDC is
 using the national YMC Longitudinal Survey to collect data about
 attitudes and behaviors of children and their parents. This
 report presents selected findings from the baseline survey.

<p>* Links to non-Federal organizations are provided solely as a
 service to our users. Links do not constitute an endorsement
 of any organization by CDC or the Federal Government, and none
 should be inferred. The CDC is not responsible for the content
 of the individual organization Web pages found at these links.


