
URL: http://www.jumpforthecause.com/archive/JFTC2000.htm
<h>TANDEM SKYDIVES

<h>for Breast Cancer Research at City of Hope

<h>Jason Russell's Daily Commentary
From the Drop Zone

<h>A BRIEF HISTORY OF JUMP FOR THE CAUSE

<p>Jump For The Cause's first event was in 1997, and raised over
 $11,000 for a local Battered Women's Shelter. The event was
 1-day only, and involved 48 jumpers who formed a Star of David
 in freefall. The second event took place in 1998 and was also
 a Star of David Jump. This event raised almost $20,000 to benefit
 battered Women and Children.

<p>JUMP RUN PRODUCTIONS and SQUARE ONE PARACHUTE SALES incorporated
 JUMP FOR THE CAUSE Inc., in 1999.

<p>The 1999 Women's World Record Skydive was the new corporation's
 flagship event. This 6-day event raised over $300,000 to fight
 breast cancer, and set a new World Record (118 Women)!

<p>Jump For The Cause's fourth event took place in 2000. At this
 one-day event, 35 jumpers joined paraplegic jumper, Coral Degagne,
 to set a new World Tandem Record. Concurrent with this event,
 Skydive Dallas held their Texas State Record Attempts as a fundraiser
 to benefit JUMP FOR THE CAUSE. The two events raised $55,000
 for The USC Department of Neurology to help find a cure for
 Spinal Cord Research.

<p>In October of 2002, Jump For The Cause will present JUMP FOR
 THE CAUSE, 2002 - A WOMENS WORLD RECORD EVENT. The event takes
 place October 14-19, at Perris Valley Skydiving. We plan to
 build a formation of 150 women, and our goal is to raise a quarter
 of a millon dollars for the City of Hope.

<p>PUBLICITY

<p>Jump Run Productions, an Emmy award winning Production Company,
 specializes in publicizing Skydiving related events. What follows
 is a partial list of media garnered since 1997 (many of our
 broadcasters have done features on more than one of our events):

<p>Good Morning America (5 minutes plus!), Extra, Inside Edition,
 The Travel Channel, local and National News, Real TV, KTLA (35
 minutes on their Los Angeles' top rated AM News show) Footage
 placement on ½ dozen specials for airing on a variety of networks,
 Intersticials on Lifetime Channel and a variety of print media
 including local and national newspapers, magazines and of course,
 every Parachute Magazine in the world (really!).

<p>Jump For The Cause 1999 received a FAI award for "Top 10 Aerial
 Events of the Year", as did a Jump Run Productions Event, the
 1998 Women's World Canopy Record.

<p>We work with one of Los Angeles' top publicists, and as you can
 see, our events are extremely high profile. We are looking forward
 to showcasing our sponsors as we promote our next event.

<h>ABOUT THE FOUNDERS OF
JUMP FOR THE CAUSE

<p>Jump For The Cause, a 501c3 Corporation, the Skydiving Industry's
 premiere Fundraising Organization, was founded by Mallory Lewis
 and Brad Hood of JUMP RUN PRODUCTIONS and Kate Cooper and Tony
 Domenico of Square One Parachute Sales.

<p>Jump Run Productions has been the industry's leading Emmy- Award
 Winning Skydiving Cinematography group since it was founded
 in 1995. In addition to having organized a number of highly
 successful charity events which garnered tremendous media attention,
 Cinematographer Brad Hood has filmed numerous skydiving sequences
 for major motion pictures such as Air Force One, Puppet Masters
 and Drop Zone as well as many national television commercials.
 

<p>Hood is currently on the United States Parachute Team and was
 part of the gold medal-winning United States team at the World
 Air Games in Spain this past June. Lewis is an Emmy Award winning
 television producer and now works with her mother's (Shari Lewis's)
 famous puppet, LambChop, Jump For The Causes' Official Spokes-sock.

<p>Square One, Square2 and Square3 Parachute Sales are one of the
 industry's success stories, boasting three locations and a thriving
 mail order business. In addition to being very successful business
 people, Kate Cooper and Tony Domenico are two of the sport's
 most experienced record event organizers, and were key organizers
 on the last three World Teams. Both Kate and Tony are multiple
 World Record holders, national competitors and medallists, and
 are much sought after as large formation trainers and key organizers.
 They are two of the most highly respected jumpers on a world
 level, and are in an ideal position to put together a successful
 World Record Event.

<p>The success of Square One left its founders realizing that Pro
 Shops, offering both excellent service and selection, were needed
 in other areas of the country.

<p>Square2 was opened in Eloy in the fall of 1997, at the World
 Famous Skydive Arizona dropzone to help the local and visiting
 jumpers there have access to the best equipment available. Square3
 was opened in the summer of 2000 at Crosskeys, New Jersey, to
 help the busy Northeast have it's share of great service and
 selection as well. Between Square One, Square2 and Square3,
 the skydiving world has several regional choices for their equipment!

<p>Perris Valley Skydiving, the largest Skydiving Center in North
 America, offers a wide variety of airsports to the general public.
 Founded in 1965 and purchased by the Conatser family in 1976,
 Perris Valley Skydiving hosts the largest number of meticulously
 maintained Turbine Aircraft available year round. The Drop Zone
 owns three Twin Turbine Super Otters. We also have a Turbine
 Skyvan. The Drop Zone is run by Melanie and Patrick Conatser,
 who have been involved in aviation since childhood.

<p>For those making their first parachute jump or as an experienced
 jumper, Perris Valley Skydiving is recognized as the premier
 skydiving center in the Western Hemisphere. The school has been
 in business for 25 years. In addition to its school training
 and Tandem program, Perris Valley offers facilities to accommodate
 team training and fun jumpers. World class coaching is available,
 as well as load organizing for the intermediate and experienced
 skydiver.


