
URL: http://www.kolabora.com
<h>
Online Collaboration News Radar 

<p> Skype will continue to aim at the business market, adding functions
 for specific business needs, executives said last week at the
 company's development center in Tallinn, Estonia. The company's
 most recent 3.0 version of its software allows ... Read more

<p> The technology's focus will move from simply saving money on
 communications to improving productivity. In the networking
 space in 2007, voice over IP will be less about reducing communications
 cost on a converged IP network and more about improving ...
 Read more

<p> Photo credit: Ivan Stevanovic ComBOTS: Send pictures, files
 or video clips to your contacts from your desktop through an
 avatar-based interface Zoho Projects: Organize and track the
 work of your team within a web-based project management space
 NumSum: ... Read more

<p> The pieces are out there, but fitting them together has proven
 a long and confusing process. Three years ago, Microsoft Chairman
 and Chief Software Architect Bill Gates stood before a crowd
 in New York City and laid out a dizzying new direction for the
 ... Read more

<p> Skype will continue to aim at the business market, adding functions
 for specific business needs, executives said this week at the
 company's development center in Tallinn, Estonia. The company's
 most recent version of its software, 3.0, allows ... Read more

<p> iSupporter is professional live support software for professional
 web sites. Our online collaboration customer support tool is
 using live support chat, voice chat, co-browsing and all available
 tools the online assistant agent needs to handle online ...
 Read more

<p> Many Thanks to Robert Scoble of Scoble Show fame for producing
 a brand new 15 minute video interview on the basics of bioteams
 and how it can be applied in organisational teams. Read more

<p> Ken Thompson studies how animals work together and applies that
 to finding ways for humans to work together better, too -- he
 calls the methodology "BioTeaming." I found his viewpoint to
 be different (he lives in Belfast, Ireland, so he comes at ...
 Read more

<p> Much of what you have seen in 2006 is only an anticipation of
 yet more innovative, effective and useful new media technologies
 to appear in the coming months. In this yearly article I take
 a look at key new media technology areas and trends I see ...
 Read more

<p> This week I had time to experiment with Google Docs and Spreadsheets
 (http://docs.google.com/), the free online word processor and
 spreadsheet applications that work entirely within a web browser.
 Although not nearly as full featured as an office suite, ...
 Read more

<p> Last Friday afternoon I had a chance to talk on the phone with
 John Todd. John's the Chief Technology Offficer at TalkPlus.
 If you aren't at all familiar with TalkPlus and what they do,
 I've written about them in fair detail in Why TalkPlus ... Read
 more

<p> Jargong: Mobile instant messaging application enables you to
 connect to the major IM networks from your mobile BlueTie: Team
 management service offers web-based email, calendar and file
 sharing support for your team Chinswing: Asynchronous voice-based
 ... Read more

<p> A net phone called the iPhone has been launched by Linksys just
 weeks before analysts were expecting Apple to release a similarly-named
 device. The wireless iPhone allows users to make free or low-cost
 internet phone calls using the Skype service. It ... Read more

<p> Looking for how to make cheap international calls from your
 computer or for how to access your favourite instant messaging
 networks through your mobile phone? Want to know how to edit
 your presentations within your web browser from any computer?
 Here is ... Read more

<h>Kolabora Articles on Web Conferencing, Video Conferencing, Virtual
 Teams and Web Presentations.

<p>
 Photo credit: orla Jargong: Mobile instant messaging application
 enables you to connect to the major IM networks from your mobile
 BlueTie: Team management service offers web-based email, calendar
 and file sharing support for your team Chinswing: Asynchronous
 voice-based message board with text and live voice chat MorphVOX
 by Screamingbee: Voice changing software> enables you to modify
 your voice and add special effects to it... [Read more]

<p>
 Using voice over IP, any computer or telephone connected to
 the internet with a broadband connection can call another computer
 or phone at a fraction of usual cost, or absolutely free. In
 other words VoIP can turn a standard Internet connection into
 a way to place free phone calls. Photo credit: Aleksey Telnov
 The practical upshot of this is that by using some of the free
 VoIP software that is... [Read more]

<p>
 Photo credit: james steidl Mixd: Group text messaging service
 promoted by Yahoo! lets you send multiple sms at the cost of
 one iCall: VoIP software enables you to call landline phones
 from your computer for free or at very cheap fares Web instant
 messenger allows you to sign into different IM networks from
 one single web page Vyew: A Web conferencing and collaboration
 platform that enables to share files... [Read more]

<p>
 BeAnywhere is a service that allows you to access your remote
 pc from any other computer in the world and take control over
 all your files and applications. BeAnywhere - which we already
 covered in another article on MasterNewMedia - has recently
 released a new version which now enables users to connect to
 their remote pc without the need to install anything on their
 local computer. The control panel of... [Read more]

<p>
 Photo credit: Andres Rodriguez Talkonaut: Mobile IM application
 enables you to access the most popular instant messaging networks
 from your phone Zemble: Text-messaging service lets you send
 sms to a large group of people and manage evens from any mobile
 phones Fleck: Notes editor allows you to write post-its on any
 web page and share them with others syncVUE: Collaborative synchronized
 media player allows you to watch, fast forward... [Read more]

<p>
 Photo credit: Michael Osterrieder Collaboroom: Instant whiteboard
 for online collaboration that you can access from any Flash-enabled
 browser Karzi: Online chatroom service lets you create a chatroom
 in few clicks with no need to install Java Nottr: Online notes
 collector allows you to write notes and share them with others
 through RSS feeds Event Wax: Event organizer lets you plan events,
 manage subscriptions and receive payments through PayPal...
 [Read more]

<p>
 Several years ago, the rush to elearning was driven by visions
 of profits. The long under-funded educational system was suddenly
 able to play in the business domain. Photo credit: Lorelyn Medina
 However, NYU Online, USOU, Fathom, and others discovered that
 the elearning market did not guarantee instant riches. The elearning
 market revealed itself as any other unique market - not easily
 unlocked by traditional business acumen or higher education
 administration.... [Read more]

<p>
 Photo credit: james steidl Thinkature: Collaborative workspace
 with integrated witheboard and chat CrossLoop: Screen sharing
 application for Windows allows one-to-one desktop sharing ConceptShare:
 Interactive workspace platform allows you to present visual
 designs and discuss over them CommuniClique: Collaboration platform
 lets you manage your online work with the support of VoIP communication...
 [Read more]

<p>
 Web-Based Delivery of Audio and Video Materials The web-based
 delivery of Audio-Video recordings consists in the ability to
 publish, share and redistribute to other internet-connected
 users audio or video clips. Photo credit: (c) Padplayer Thanks
 to major cost decreases for mass storage technology and thanks
 to the increased amounts of data bandwidth available to Internet
 providers and end users since 2005 it has become feasible for
 anyone to publish, share... [Read more]


