
URL: http://www.lib.byu.edu/~rdh/wwi/bio/l/ludendrf.html
<p>
 Born in Kruszczewina (Posen), W. Prussia, 9 April 1865 to a
 family of small businessmen, Ludendorff chose a military career.
 He received his commission in 1882 at age 17, serving in the
 usual assignments and completing training for the general staff.
  In 1904 came the call to Berlin to serve on the Great General
 Staff.  He worked in section II, responsible for deployment
 and mobilization plans. In 1908 he became head of the section,
 the most prestigious position excepting the Chief of the General
 Staff. 

<p> Having an excitable and highly strung temperament, the strong-willed
 Ludendorff proved a difficult subordinate.  Charged with refining
 and improving the Schlieffen Plan in the years before the war,
 he became convinced that Germany lacked the trained manpower
 to defeat the French in a rapid campaign. Ludendorff insisted
 that the government raise additional forces. When this suggestion
 met disapproval, he by-passed his superiors and initiated contact
 with politicians in an effort to influence the budget.  That
 the German political system could not bear the cost of additional
 units was something he never considered.  To him, it was a matter
 of will.  The response was a transfer to a regiment in D&uuml;sseldorf,
 safely away from Berlin.  A year later he was given a brigade
 in Strasbourg and promoted to general, but his mobilization
 orders as quartermaster general (he should have been an army
 chief of staff as a brigadier general) of the 2d Army indicated
 he was still persona non grata in Berlin. 

<p> When war came in August 1914, fortune smiled.  In the confusion
 of the attack on Li&egrave;ge, Ludendorff received the surrender
 of the city, and Germany had its first war hero.  The Kaiser
 personally decorated him with Prussia's highest award, the Pour
 le merit&eacute;, the second of the war.  The situation in the
 east, where two Russian armies threatened to break through German
 defenses, demanded his brilliance and capability for superb
 staff work.  As a counterweight to his volatility, the High
 Command recalled from retirement General Paul v. Hindenburg,
 a phlegmatic, no-nonsense, even cautious officer, to command
 8th Army.  Ludendorff became chief of staff.  The two generals
 met for the first time en route to East Prussia.  The situation
 they confronted was threatening and risky, but by no means hopeless.
 With the able assistance of the 8th Army's operations officer,
 Max Hoffmann, the Germans routed the Russians at the Battles
 of Tannenberg (August 1914) and Masurian Lakes (September 1914).
 The impressive victories electrified Germany and cemented Ludendorff's
 reputation as the man of genius.  The image of the invincible
 duo of Hindenburg and Ludendorff took root in the German mind.
  They became legends to a people demoralized by the bloody stalemate
 in the west.  For Ludendorff, who grew increasingly critical
 of the western war effort, the lack of success reflected a lack
 of will.  He called for "total war."  Convinced of his own judgment,
 his vocal criticism of the war effort mounted, and he campaigned
 endlessly against those who opposed him. 

<p> The apostle of total war got his chance when the Kaiser, staggered
 by the losses at Verdun, sent Hindenburg and Ludendorff westward
 to take-over the German war effort.  Ludendorff took the title
 Quartermaster General and received a promotion to lieutenant
 general, while Hindenburg, already a field marshal, became chief
 of the general staff.  Shocked by the materiel superiority of
 the Allies and convinced that the civilian leadership lacked
 the will to prosecute the war to the fullest, Ludendorff initiated
 the Hindenburg Program.  Largely a military take-over of the
 economy including compulsory labor coupled with a ruthless exploitation
 of occupied territories, the unpopular program resulted in considerable
 production gains while sapping home front morale.  Convinced
 German defense operations were too static and hence costly,
 Ludendorff introduced new tactics that emphasized an elastic
 defense in depth.  To free divisions for reinforcements, Ludendorff
 conducted a massive shortening of German lines by evacuating
 his forces Operation Alberich to the Siegfried Line in early
 1917.  The Allies called the line the Hindenburg Line. The withdrawn
 area was left a wasteland. 

<p> Ludendorff recognized the strategy of the war had become one
 of attrition.  With her inferior resources compounded by the
 strangling English naval blockade, Germany could not win with
 this strategy.  Consumed by fears that time was running out,
 Ludendorff convinced Hindenburg that Germany had to husband
 resources for a knock-out blow on the western front.  Shortening
 the lines to free up units, stepping up the Hindenburg Program,
 and wrapping up the war in the east would free the resources
 needed for the decisive blow. 

<p> Convinced that only total effort could achieve victory, Ludendorff
 shrank from nothing.  Accepting the Navy's contention that a
 return to unrestricted submarine warfare would bring a halt
 to the delivery of vital American munitions, Ludendorff urged
 its adoption knowing America would enter the war.  He severely
 underestimated both the U.S. military potential and the speed
 with which it could be brought to bear. 

<p> By now there were voices of opposition in Germany to his increasingly
 bullying manner and excessive authority.  Hardly an area of
 German life remained outside his grasp by 1918.  The Kaiser
 loathed and feared him, but he could not stand up to him. Ludendorff
 contemptuously dismissed peace initiatives and war weariness
 as manifestations of a lack of will.  He spared no one, including
 himself and his family.  Two of his stepsons fell in combat,
 losses which made him harder.  He relentlessly attacked those
 who opposed his measures, including Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg,
 whom he forced from office by mid-1917. 

<p> The submarine campaign served only to bring the U.S. into the
 war.  American forces began arriving at a rate undreamed of
 by their foes.  Only the collapse of Russia under the Bolsheviks,
 to which Ludendorff had indirectly contributed by transporting
 Lenin from Switzerland to Russia, brightened the otherwise disastrous
 picture.  Convinced any peace terms would be unacceptable, a
 belief fed indirectly by his own draconic demands upon the hapless
 Russians, he cobbled together the esources for one last great
 push, the Spring Offensive of 1918.  By stripping units from
 the east, Ludendorff increased his strength in the west by 30%.
  Special units (Storm Battalions) trained in new, infiltration
 tactics, used surprise and mobility to by-pass enemy strong
 points and emerge behind enemy lines into the open. Traditional
 infantry units following along reduced the by-passed areas.
  A complete absence of the new weapon, the tank, constituted
 a major weakness to the otherwise formidable restructuring.
  Ludendorff had seen tanks, but he belittled their importance
 and dismissed his soldiers' concerns as a lack of will, a strange
 lapse in a man who usually incorporated his subordinates' suggestions.
 

<p>Ludendorff's spring offensive, code-named Kaiserschlacht, called
 for a series of attacks rather than a single break-through.
  The Quartermaster General planned a number of sharp blows to
 collapse the entire western Allied front.  The first onslaught
 began on 21 March.  Although badly shaken, the Allies finally
 held, and Ludendorff called off the advance in early April.
  His next two operations followed the same pattern: extraordinary
 initial successes petering out owing to a lack of reserves and
 supplies.  The end had come; the Germans could not make good
 their losses. 

<p>Ludendorff collapsed under the stress.  He had lost his second
 son in the offensive, and on occasion his ravings against defeatists
 and incompetent civilians turned into uncontrollable tantrums.
  On the 28th of September, he told Hindenburg and his staff
 that Germany must seek an immediate armistice.  The Kaiser and
 Chancellor Hertling heard this sad news the next day, and agreed.
  When Ludendorff later publicly reversed his position about
 Germany's ability to continue the war, the Kaiser demanded his
 resignation. 

<p> Ludendorff's post-war career tarnished his reputation. Fearing
 revenge, he fled temporarily to Sweden.  He wrote his memoirs,
 blaming Germany's defeat on his innumerable foes and their lack
 of will power.  He railed at the new Republic and his new enemies,
 the Jews, Jesuits and Freemasons, whom he blamed for stabbing
 Germany in the back.  He became the darling of the extreme right,
 marching with Hitler during the Beer Hall Putsch.  In 1925 he
 ran for Reich President, polling a mere 1%.  His views and demons
 grew more extreme, and he fell to bickering with Hitler and
 his former wartime comrades.  One-by-one he broke relations
 with his staff and colleagues, including his wife whom he suddenly
 left for Mathilde v. Kemnitz, a folklore specialist. She encouraged
 his fantasies.  In 1935 he published The Total War, reversing
 Clausewitz's dictum and arguing that politics must serve war.
  On 22 December 1937 he died, shortly after declining Hitler's
 offer of promotion to field marshal with the remark, "a field
 marshal is born, not made." 

<p>Reference
Ludendorff, Erich, Ludendorff's Own Story, August 1914-November
 1918, 2 vols., New York, 1919, gives a flavor of the man.  It
 bears careful reading, for Ludendorff passes the blame for Germany's
 defeat onto others. 
  MB


