
URL: http://www.lums.lancs.ac.uk/news/cuttings
<h>LUMS in the News

<p>Dr Daniel Muzio and Dr Sharon Bolton, both of the Department
 of Organisation, Work and Technology, were quoted extensively
 in a feature in 'Il Sole 24 Ore' (Italy's leading business and
 finance publication) on gender in the legal profession. Dr Bolton's
 and Dr Muzio's research shows that despite some significant
 processes of numerical feminisation, women solicitors are still
 faced by patterns of sexual discrimination, subordination and
 exclusion.

<p>Oona Goldsworthy, one of the students in the first cohort of
 Lancaster's Leadership for Housing executive programme, was
 featured in the Guardian on 5 December. Oona collected the Guardian's
 'Public Service Award' on behalf of Bristol Community Housing
 Federation, of which she is chief executive.

<p>Professor Cary Cooper of LUMS is quoted in a story in the Observer
 about women chief executives in UK businesses. "We've pushed
 the glass ceiling up, but we haven't broken it," says Professor
 Cooper. "We're seeing more and more jobs in senior and middle
 management going to women, but not yet in top management."

<p>Dr Sharon Bolton, of the Department of Organisation, Work and
 Technology, is quoted extensively in a Times feature on the
 UK's new Age Discrimination Act. Dr Bolton's research shows
 that the new legislation is unlikely to make much difference
 to many older workers.

<p>Professor Cary Cooper's new research into the thrill factor in
 sport is covered by the London Evening Standard. "The research
 allows sporting spectators to compile and rate all the feelings
 of tension and exhilaration that they may feel during a game.
 It's the mathematical proof needed in a heated sporting debate,"
 said Cary Cooper, who is Professor of Organisational Psychology
 and Health at Lancaster University Management School.

<p>Lancaster's MSc in Management was featured in a story in The
 Independent on 5 October which focuses on how a business Masters
 degree can help graduates from non-vocational degrees get started
 in a business career.

<p>Andy Bailey, Director of Lancaster's Executive MBA, is quoted
 in a Times story on the learning gained by students on executive
 MBA programmes. "A big part of the process is about challenging
 misconceptions," Dr Bailey says. "Private sector students learn
 that profit isn't the most important motivation for all organisations
 and individuals; there can be other measures and drivers of
 success."

<p>Dr Nahed Taher, who graduated from LUMS with an MSc in 1998,
 and a PhD in Economics in 2001, has been ranked 72nd in Forbes
 Magazine's list of the 100 most powerful women in the world.

<p>The Financial Times carries a feature on leadership development
 in northern England, focusing on the Northern Leadership Academy
 and Lancaster University Management School's pivotal role in
 developing leadership initiatives. Professor Steve Bradley,
 Head of the Economics department, and Steve Kempster, director
 of the Lancaster Leadership Centre, are quoted extensively in
 the article.


