
URL: http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/inf12.htm
<p>-------------------------------------------------Email this article
  Printable version
 -------------------------------------------------
 

<p>Safeguards to Prevent Nuclear Proliferation&#9;

<p>October 2006

<l>Most countries participate in international initiatives designed
 to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

<l>The international safeguards system has since 1970 successfully
 prevented the diversion of fissile materials into weapons. Its
 scope is being widened to address undeclared nuclear activities.
 

<l>The IAEA undertakes regular inspections of civil nuclear facilities
 and audits the movement of nuclear materials through them. 

<l>Safeguards are backed by diplomatic and economic measures.

<p>Over the past 35 years the International Atomic Energy Agency's
 (IAEA) safeguards system under the Nuclear Non-proliferation
 Treaty (NPT) has been a conspicuous international success in
 curbing the diversion of civil uranium into military uses. It
 has involved cooperation in developing nuclear energy while
 ensuring that civil uranium, plutonium and associated plants
 are used only for peaceful purposes and do not contribute in
 any way to proliferation or nuclear weapons programs. In 1995
 the NPT was extended indefinitely. Its scope is also being widened
 to include undeclared nuclear activities. 

<p> Most countries have renounced nuclear weapons, recognising that
 possession of them would threaten rather than enhance national
 security. They have therefore embraced the NPT as a public commitment
 to use nuclear materials and technology only for peaceful purposes.
 

<p>The NPT Origins and Objectives

<p>The successful conclusion, in 1968, of negotiations on the NPT
 was a landmark in the history of non-proliferation. After coming
 into force in 1970, its indefinite extension in May 1995 was
 another. At present, 187 states are party to the NPT. These
 include all five declared Nuclear Weapons States (NWSs): China,
 France, the Russian Federation, the UK and the USA. 

<p> The NPT's main objectives are to stop the further spread of
 nuclear weapons, to provide security for non-nuclear weapon
 states which have given up the nuclear option, to encourage
 international co-operation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy,
 and to pursue negotiations in good faith towards nuclear disarmament
 leading to the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons. 

<p>The International Atomic Energy Agency

<p>The IAEA was set up by unanimous resolution of the United Nations
 in 1957 to help nations develop nuclear energy for peaceful
 purposes. Allied to this role is the administration of safeguards
 arrangements. This provide assurance to the international community
 that individual countries are honouring their treaty commitments
 to use nuclear materials and facilities exclusively for peaceful
 purposes. 

<p> The IAEA therefore undertakes regular inspections of civil nuclear
 facilities to verify the accuracy of documentation supplied
 to it. The agency checks inventories and undertakes sampling
 and analysis of materials. Safeguards are designed to deter
 diversion of nuclear material by increasing the risk of early
 detection. They are complemented by controls on the export of
 sensitive technology from countries such as UK and USA through
 voluntary bodies such as the Nuclear Suppliers' Group. 

<p>Scope of safeguards

<p>Traditional safeguards are arrangements to account for and control
 the use of nuclear materials. This verification is a key element
 in the international system which ensures that uranium in particular
 is used only for peaceful purposes. 

<p> Parties to the NPT agree to accept technical safeguards measures
 applied by the IAEA. These require that operators of nuclear
 facilities maintain and declare detailed accounting records
 of all movements and transactions involving nuclear material
 . Over 550 facilities and several hundred other locations are
 subject to regular inspection, and their records and the nuclear
 material being audited. Inspections by the IAEA are complemented
 by other measures such as surveillance cameras and instrumentation.
 

<p> The aim of traditional IAEA safeguards is to deter the diversion
 of nuclear material from peaceful use by maximising the risk
 of early detection. At a broader level they provide assurance
 to the international community that countries are honouring
 their treaty commitments to use nuclear materials and facilities
 exclusively for peaceful purposes. In this way safeguards are
 a service both to the international community and to individual
 states, who recognise that it is in their own interest to demonstrate
 compliance with these commitments. 

<p> The inspections act as an alert system providing a warning of
 the possible diversion of nuclear material from peaceful activities.
 The system relies on; 

<l>Material Accountability - tracking all inward and outward transfers
 and the flow of materials in any nuclear facility. This includes
 sampling and analysis of nuclear material, on-site inspections,
 review and verification of operating records. 

<l>Physical Security - restricting access to nuclear materials at
 the site of use. 

<l>Containment and Surveillance - use of seals, automatic cameras
 and other instruments to detect unreported movement or tampering
 with nuclear materials, as well as spot checks on-site.

<p> All NPT non-weapons states must accept these full-scope safeguards.
 In the five weapons states plus the non-NPT states (India, Pakistan
 and Israel), facility-specific safeguards apply. IAEA inspectors
 regularly visit these facilities to verify completeness and
 accuracy of records. 

<p> The terms of the NPT cannot be enforced by the IAEA itself,
 nor can nations be forced to sign the treaty. In reality, as
 shown in Iraq and North Korea, safeguards can be backed up by
 diplomatic, political and economic measures. 

<p>Iraq and North Korea illustrate both the strengths and weaknesses
 of international safeguards. While accepting safeguards at declared
 facilities, Iraq had set up elaborate equipment elsewhere in
 an attempt to enrich uranium to weapons grade. North Korea attempted
 to use research reactors (not commercial electricity-generating
 reactors) and a reprocessing plant to produce some weapons-grade
 plutonium. 

<p> The weakness of the NPT regime lay in the fact that no obvious
 diversion of material was involved. The uranium used as fuel
 probably came from indigenous sources, and the nuclear facilities
 concerned were built by the countries themselves without being
 declared or placed safeguards arrangements. Iraq, as an NPT
 party, was obliged to declare all facilities but did not do
 so. In North Korea, the activities concerned took place before
 the conclusion of its NPT safeguards agreement. 

<p> Nevertheless, the activities were detected and brought under
 control using international diplomacy. In Iraq, a military defeat
 assisted this process, but North Korea posed possibly the most
 intractable situation confronted by the IAEA. But significant
 compensation in the promised provision of commercial power reactors
 eventually helped resolve the situation, at least until 2002.
 

<p> So, while traditional safeguards easily verified the correctness
 of formal declarations by suspect states, in the 1990s attention
 turned to what might not have been declared, outside the known
 materials flows and facilities. 

<p>Undeclared nuclear activities

<p>In 1993 a program was initiated to strengthen and extend the
 classical safeguards system was initiated, and a model protocol
 was agreed by the IAEA Board of Governors in 1997. The measures
 boosted the IAEA's ability to detect undeclared nuclear activities,
 including those with no connection to the civil fuel cycle.
 

<p> Innovations were of two kinds. Some could be implemented on
 the basis of IAEA's existing legal authority through safeguards
 agreements and inspections. Others required further legal authority
 to be conferred through an Additional Protocol. This must be
 agreed by each non-weapons state with IAEA, as a supplement
 to any existing comprehensive safeguards agreement. Weapons
 states have agreed to accept the principles of the model additional
 protocol. 

<p>Key elements of the model Additional Protocol:

<l>The IAEA is given considerably more information on nuclear and
 nuclear-related activities, including R & D, production of uranium
 and thorium (regardless of whether it is traded) and nuclear-related
 imports and exports.

<l>IAEA inspectors have greater rights of access. This will include
 any suspect location, it can be at short notice (eg. two hours),
 and the IAEA can deploy environmental sampling and remote monitoring
 techniques to detect illicit activities.

<l>States must streamline administrative procedures so that IAEA
 inspectors get automatic visa renewal and can communicate more
 readily with IAEA headquarters. 

<p> All these elements focus on nuclear materials. They enhance
 the IAEA's ability to provide assurances that all nuclear activities
 and material in the country concerned has been declared for
 safeguards purposes. As of mid 2006, 76 countries plus Taiwan
 had Additional Protocols in force, 38 more had them approved
 and signed. 

<p> Further evolution of safeguards is towards evaluation of each
 state, taking account of its particular situation and the kind
 of nuclear materials it has. This will involve greater judgement
 on the part of IAEA and the development of effective methodologies
 which reassure NPT States. 

<p> Where states have a safeguards agreement with the IAEA and an
 Additional Protocol in force, the IAEA is able to say each year
 not only that declared nuclear material remains in peaceful
 activities, but also that there are no undeclared nuclear materials
 or activities. 

<p>Limitations of safeguards

<p> The greatest risk of nuclear weapons proliferation lies with
 countries which have not joined the NPT and which have significant
 unsafeguarded nuclear activities. India, Pakistan and Israel
 are in this category. While safeguards apply to some of their
 activities, others remain beyond scrutiny. 

<p> A further concern is that countries may develop various sensitive
 nuclear fuel cycle facilities and research reactors under full
 safeguards and then subsequently opt out of the NPT. Bilateral
 agreements such as insisted upon by Australia and Canada for
 sale of uranium address this by including fallback provisions,
 but many countries are outside the scope of these agreements.
 If a nuclear-capable country does leave the NPT it is likely
 to be reported by IAEA to the UN Security Council, just as if
 it were in breach of its safeguards agreement. Trade sanctions
 are then likely. 

<p> IAEA safeguards together with bilateral safeguards applied under
 the NPT can, and do, ensure that uranium supplied by countries
 such as Australia and Canada does not contribute to nuclear
 weapons proliferation. In fact the worldwide application of
 those safeguards and the substantial world trade in uranium
 for nuclear electricity make the proliferation of nuclear weapons
 much less likely. 

<p> The Additional Protocol, once it is widely in force will provide
 credible assurance that there are no undeclared nuclear materials
 or activities in the states concerned. This will be a major
 step forward in preventing nuclear proliferation. 

<p> By mid 2004 a total of 57 countries plus Taiwan had ratified
 the Additional Protocol. However, of 71 countries with significant
 nuclear activities, 25 have yet to bring it into force. 

<p> However, of 71 countries with significant nuclear activities,
 four NPT parties have not yet signed the Additional Protocol
 and another ten have not fully ratified it (another four of
 the 71 are outside the NPT). 

<p>Other IAEA developments

<p> In May 1995, NPT parties reaffirmed their commitment to a Fissile
 Materials Cut-off Treaty to prohibit the production of any further
 fissile material for weapons. This aims to complement the Comprehensive
 Test Ban Treaty agreed in 1996 and to codify commitments made
 by USA, UK, France and Russia to cease production of weapons
 material, as well as putting a similar ban on China. This treaty
 will also put more pressure on Israel, India and Pakistan to
 agree to international verification. 

<p> Another initiative relates to plutonium (Pu) and spent fuel.
 For uranium, safeguards take account of its nature: natural,
 depleted, low-enriched or high-enriched (above 20% U-235) and
 the corresponding degree of concern regarding proliferation.
 A similarly differentiated approach is being considered for
 Pu. Two or three categories are possible: degraded Pu (eg in
 high-burnup fuel), low-grade Pu (eg separated from spent fuel
 of normal burnup) and high-grade Pu (eg from weapons or low-burnup
 fuel). The first two correspond to what is generally known as
 a reactor-grade Pu, sometimes defined as having more than 19%
 non-fissile isotopes. 

<p>Additional arrangements

<p> There are also several other treaties and arrangements designed
 to reduce the risk of civil nuclear power's contributing to
 weapons proliferation. 

<p> Implementation of IAEA safeguards in the non-nuclear weapon
 states of the EU is governed by a Verification Agreement between
 the country concerned, EURATOM and the IAEA. Safeguards activities
 are carried out jointly by the IAEA and EURATOM. A revision
 to earlier arrangements, the New Partnership Approach (NPA),
 was agreed in April 1992. The NPA enables the IAEA itself to
 deploy more of its resources in member states where independent
 regional safeguards systems are not in place. 

<p> Shortly after entry into force of the NPT, multilateral consultations
 on nuclear export controls led to the establishment of two separate
 mechanisms for dealing with nuclear exports: the Zangger Committee
 in 1971 and the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) in 1975. 

<p> The Zangger Committee, also known as the Non Proliferation Treaty
 Exporters Committee, was set up to consider how procedures for
 exports of nuclear material and equipment related to NPT commitments.
 In August 1974 the committee produced a trigger list of items
 which would require the application of IAEA safeguards if exported
 to a non Nuclear Weapons State which was not party to the NPT.
 The trigger list is regularly updated. The Zangger Committee
 now has 31 member states. 

<p> The NSG, also known as the London Group or London Suppliers
 Group, was set up in 1974 after India exploded its first nuclear
 device. The main reason for the group's formation was to bring
 in France, a major nuclear supplier nation which was not then
 party to the NPT. It included both members and non-members of
 the Zangger Committee. The group communicated its guidelines,
 essentially a set of export rules, to the IAEA in 1978. These
 were to ensure that transfers of nuclear material or equipment
 would not be diverted to unsafeguarded nuclear fuel cycle or
 nuclear explosive activities, and formal government assurances
 to this effect were required from recipients. The Guidelines
 also recognised the need for physical protection measures in
 the transfer of sensitive facilities, technology and weapons-usable
 materials, and strengthened retransfer provisions. The NSG began
 with seven members - the USA, the former USSR, the UK, France,
 Germany, Canada and Japan - but now includes 35 countries. 

<p>AUSTRALIAN SAFEGUARDS POLICY

<p> Australia's uranium is sold for exclusively peaceful purposes,
 namely electric power generation and related research and development
 activities. The main components of Australia's safeguards policy
 are: 

<p> (1) Careful selection of those countries eligible for the supply
 of Australian uranium: 

<l>In the case of non-nuclear-weapons States, sales are made only
 to countries which are parties to the NPT. These have renounced
 the nuclear weapons option and accept full-scope IAEA safeguards
 applying to all their nuclear-related activities; 

<l>In the case of nuclear weapons States, which must also be parties
 to the NPT, sales require an assurance that uranium will not
 be diverted to military or explosive purposes and that it will
 be subject to IAEA safeguards. 

<p> (2) Countries wishing to import Australian uranium must conclude
 a bilateral safeguards agreement with Australia. Provisions
 include: 

<l>prior Australian consent to any Australian obligated nuclear
 material (AONM) being transferred to a third party, enriched
 beyond 20% uranium-235, or reprocessed. Transfers are permitted
 only within Australia's network of bilateral safeguards. 

<l>fallback safeguards (contingency arrangements to ensure the continued
 safeguarding of material already present in an importing country
 in case safeguards under the NPT ever cease to apply); 

<p> (3) Strong support for the NPT and IAEA safeguards, including
 the Additional Protocol, with IAEA monitoring to apply. 

<p> When adopted in 1977, this was a more rigorous safeguards policy
 than that of any country supplying uranium to world markets.
 However, the approach is very similar to that of the USA and
 Canada. 

<p> Australia has 14 bilateral safeguards agreements covering 24
 countries (the Euratom agreement covering several). It has always
 taken the position that rigorous bilateral safeguards are an
 important and effective complement to the international safeguards
 system. 

<p> Australia's position as a major uranium exporter is influential
 in the ongoing development of international safeguards and other
 non-proliferation measures, through membership of the IAEA Board
 of Governors, participation in international expert groups and
 its safeguards research program in support of the IAEA. 

<p>AUSTRALIAN SAFEGUARDS OFFICE

<p> The Australian Safeguards & Non-Proliferation Office (ASNO)
 operates the system of bilateral safeguards applying to Australian
 uranium exports based on customer countries being parties to
 the NPT. It also administers the domestic safeguards system
 required by Australia's own NPT agreement with the IAEA. 

<p> In addition, ASNO keeps account of nuclear material and associated
 items in Australia through its administration of the Nuclear
 Non-Proliferation (Safeguards) Act 1987. ASNO provides information
 to the IAEA on the small amount of nuclear material in Australia
 which is subject to safeguards, and on uranium exports. It also
 facilitates IAEA inspections, including those under the Additional
 Protocol. 

<p> Australia has in place an accounting system that follows uranium
 from the time it is produced and packed for export, to the time
 it is reprocessed or stored as nuclear waste, anywhere in the
 world. It also includes plutonium which is in the spent fuel
 or recovered from it. All documentation relating to AONM is
 carefully monitored and any apparent discrepancies are taken
 up with the country concerned. There have been no unreconciled
 differences in accounting for AONM. This system operates in
 addition to safeguards applied by the IAEA which keep track
 of the movement of nuclear materials through overseas facilities
 and verify inventories. 

<p> One aspect of the accounting system is the possibility of obligation
 exchanges involving equivalent nuclear material held by a single
 utility or between different utilities. Exchanges are permitted,
 to simplify accounting and surveillance, provided that they
 do not result in reducing either the quality or quantity of
 material subject to Australian safeguards obligations. In low-enriched
 uranium the focus is on U-235 content. 

<p> Each year the ASNO reports to the Australian Parliament on its
 activities and its accounts of nuclear materials. 

<p>Nuclear materials:

<p>Uranium processed for electricity generation is not useable for
 weapons. The uranium used in power reactor fuel for electricity
 generation is typically enriched to about 3-4% of the isotope
 U-235, compared with weapons-grade which is over 90% U-235.
 For safeguards purposes uranium is deemed to be "highly enriched"
 when it reaches 20% U-235. Few countries possess the technological
 knowledge or the facilities to produce weapons-grade uranium.
 

<p>Plutonium is produced in the reactor core from a proportion of
 the uranium fuel. Plutonium contained in spent fuel elements
 is typically about 60-70% Pu-239, compared with weapons-grade
 plutonium which is more than 93% Pu-239. Weapons-grade plutonium
 is not produced in commercial power reactors but in a "production"
 reactor operated with frequent fuel changes to produce low-burnup
 material with a high proportion of Pu-239. 

<p>The only use for "reactor grade" plutonium is as a nuclear fuel,
 after it is separated from the high-level wastes by reprocessing.
 It is not and has never been used for weapons, due to the relatively
 high rate of spontaneous fission and radiation from the heavier
 isotopes such as Pu-240 making any such attempted use fraught
 with great uncertainties. 

<p>Further information: see appendices on Australian Obligated Nuclear
 Material (below) and Iraq, North Korea and Iran, with South
 Africa and Israel. 

<p>Appendix: From the 1999 Annual Report of the Australian Safeguards
 and Non-Proliferation Office, DFAT:

<h> Australian Obligated Nuclear Material

<p> A characteristic of the civil nuclear fuel cycle is the international
 interdependence of facility operators and power utilities. Apart
 from the nuclear-weapon States, it is unusual for a country
 to be entirely self-contained in the processing of uranium for
 civil use - and even in the case of the nuclear-weapon States,
 power utilities will seek the most favourable financial terms,
 often going to processors in other countries. Thus it is not
 unusual, for example, for a Japanese utility buying Australian
 uranium to have the uranium converted to uranium hexafluoride
 in Canada, enriched in France, fabricated into fuel in Japan,
 and reprocessed in the United Kingdom. The international flow
 of nuclear material enhances safeguards accountability, through
 'transit matching' of transfers at the different stages of the
 fuel cycle.

<p> The international nature of nuclear material flows means that
 uranium from many sources is routinely mixed during processes
 such as conversion and enrichment. Uranium is termed a 'fungible'
 commodity, that is, at these processing stages uranium from
 any source is identical to uranium from any other - it is not
 possible physically to differentiate the origin of the uranium.
 This is not unique to uranium, but is also the case with a number
 of other commodities. The fungibility of uranium has led to
 the establishment of conventions used universally in the industry
 and in the application of safeguards, namely equivalence and
 proportionality. These are discussed below.

<p> Because of the impossibility of physically identifying 'Australian
 atoms', and also because Australian obligations apply not just
 to uranium as it moves through the different stages of the nuclear
 fuel cycle, but also to material generated through the use of
 that uranium, e.g. plutonium produced through the irradiation
 of uranium fuel in a reactor, the obligations under Australia's
 various bilateral safeguards agreements are applied to Australian
 Obligated Nuclear Material (AONM). 'AONM' is a shorthand way
 of describing the nuclear material which is subject to the provisions
 of the particular bilateral agreement. 

<p> This approach is also used by those other countries applying
 bilateral safeguards comparable to Australia's, principally
 the United States and Canada. These countries attach a safeguards
 'obligation' to nuclear material which they upgrade, hence giving
 rise to the situation of 'multi-labelling', for example, AONM
 enriched in the US will also become US obligated nuclear material
 (USONM), and its subsequent use will have to meet the requirements
 of both Australian and US agreements. This is a common situation,
 that is, a significant proportion of AONM is also characterised
 as USONM and is accounted for both to ASNO and its US counterpart
 (the US DOE).

<p> The equivalence principle provides that where AONM loses its
 separate identity because of process characteristics (e.g. mixing),
 an equivalent quantity is designated AONM, based on the fact
 that atoms or molecules of the same substance are indistinguishable,
 any one atom or molecule being identical to any other of the
 same substance. In such circumstances, equivalent quantities
 of the products of such nuclear material may be derived by calculation
 or from operating plant parameters. It should be noted that
 the principle of equivalence does not permit substitution by
 a lower quality material, e.g. enriched uranium cannot be replaced
 by natural or depleted uranium.

<p> The proportionality principle provides that where AONM is mixed
 with other nuclear material, and is processed or irradiated,
 a proportion of the resulting material will be regarded as AONM
 corresponding to the same proportion as was AONM initially.

<p> Some people are concerned that the operation of the equivalence
 principle means there cannot be assurance that 'Australian atoms'
 do not enter military programs. This overlooks the realities
 of the situation, that uranium atoms are indistinguishable from
 one another and there is no practical way of attaching 'flags'
 to atoms. The objective of Australia's bilateral agreements
 is to ensure that AONM in no way materially contributes to or
 enhances any military purpose. Even if AONM were to be in a
 processing stream with nuclear material subsequently withdrawn
 for military use, the presence of the AONM would add nothing
 to the quantity or quality of the military material (NB as noted
 elsewhere in the Annual Report, those nuclear-weapon States
 eligible for the supply of Australian uranium have ceased production
 of fissile material for nuclear weapons).

<p> Accounting for AONM

<p> Australia's bilateral partners holding AONM are required to
 maintain detailed records of transactions involving AONM, and
 ASNO's counterpart organisations are required to submit regular
 reports, consent requests, transfer and receipt documentation
 to ASNO. ASNO accounts for AONM on the basis of: 

<l>reports from each bilateral partner; 

<l>shipping and transfer documentation; 

<l>calculations of process losses and nuclear consumption, and nuclear
 production; 


