
URL: http://mcadams.posc.mu.edu/top10.htm
<h>The Top Ten Record Shop

<p> The Top Ten Record Shop is located at 338 West Jefferson Blvd.
 Dallas, Texas. 

<p> For those of you who have been to the Texas Theatre, the Top
 Ten is approximately one and a half blocks west of the theatre
 on the opposite side of the street near the corner of West Jefferson
 and South Bishop Ave. 

<p> If the Top Ten were not somehow connected to the Kennedy Assassination
 it would still be very unique for other reasons that we will
 discuss in this article. 

<p> Some of the locations that are connected to the events of the
 Kennedy Assassination have been demolished, other locations
 still exist but have been refurbished into something other than
 what they were in 1963, but very few locations have remained
 the same as they were on November 22,1963 as the Top Ten has.
 

<p> I had been in the Top Ten on a few occasions, but I was always
 short on time and running late. I could not take the time to
 appreciate it for the treasure that it is. 

<p> On my November 1997 trip to Dallas to give a presentation at
 the JFK Lancer conference I met up with Ian Griggs and his group
 of friends. We proceeded on a tour of all the usual assassination
 locations. When we stopped at the Tippit Murder Scene, Ian asked
 me to show and talk about some of the pertinent locations. We
 eventually made our way down to the Texas Theatre. From that
 point I took a few members of Ian’s group to the Top Ten Record
 Shop. Everybody was amazed at how short of a distance this is.
 

<p> As we entered and looked around the store a very warm and friendly
 gentleman sitting at the counter struck up a conversation with
 me. First we talked about music, he told me he was the owner
 of the shop and I complemented him on all the original and vintage
 decorations he had in the store. He started to relate some of
 the history of the store, as he was doing this he told us that
 the phone that is mounted in-between his counters was the same
 telephone that J.D. Tippit had used just minutes before he was
 shot. 

<p> Ian and I then told this kind gentleman that we were students
 of the Kennedy Assassination, the owner then introduced himself
 as Mike Polk and told us that he would gladly answer any questions
 that we had about the Shop. Since this meeting it has been my
 pleasure to speak and correspond with Mike on several occasions
 and I consider myself very fortunate to be friends with him.
 When we were in the shop he could not do enough for us. He was
 very generous with his time and told me that he would like copy
 of my “Car 10” article. 

<p>Mike Polk behind the counter at the Top Ten Record Shop

<p> I have been a professional musician for 22 years and in that
 time I have met literally thousands of people in the music industry.
 I can honestly say that after getting to know Mike Polk that
 he is one of the most helpful, sincere, honest, humble, respectful
 and generous person I have ever met. 

<p> In our many conversations that we have had since our meeting
 he has related some very interesting facts about the Top Ten.
 The arrangement of the counters and the telephone that J.D.
 Tippit used in the front part of the shop is exactly as it was
 on November 22, 1963 (see photograph at right, below). 

<p> The nostalgic store decorations such as the RCA Victor clock,
 dog statues and broadcast microphone are all original and kept
 in excellent condition. 

<p> Many famous recording artists have visited the Top Ten and Mike
 has many autographed pictures in his possession. Most of the
 photographs that are being displayed presently are of local
 performers. 

<p> One of Mike’s favorite stories to tell is that legendary Blues
 guitarist and vocalist Stevie Ray Vaughn would go to the Top
 Ten regularly on Saturdays in his youth to check out the shop’s
 Blues recordings. As a note of interest Stevie Ray Vaughn is
 buried in Laurel Land Cemetery not too far from the grave of
 J.D. Tippit. 

<p> To me the most wonderful thing about the Top Ten is that this
 is how neighborhood record shops existed when I was buying records
 back in the mid 1960’s. 

<p> From what I have observed on my visits to the Top Ten is that
 Mike and his staff know almost everybody that comes in by name,
 and they have a good idea of what they are looking for. In this
 day and age of corporate owned superstores and chain stores,
 it is great that a small businessman like Mike can provide personalized
 service that these other record stores can’t offer. 

<p>The Top Ten Record Shop still has the phone used by Officer Tippit
 on the day he was killed.

<p> I urge anybody that visits Dallas to stop in at the Top Ten
 and visit Mike, I know you will not be disappointed. 

<p> Some of you are asking how the Top Ten is connected to the Kennedy
 Assassination, based on the original eyewitness interviews here
 are the events that occurred.

<p> A few minutes before Dallas Police officer J.D. Tippit was murdered
 at 10th and Patton he was sighted 6/10’s of a mile away at the
 Top Ten Record Shop by it’s owner in 1963 J.W. “Dub” Stark and
 a young clerk that worked in the shop named Louis Cortinas.
 They basically said that Tippit came into the shop in a hurry,
 asked to use the telephone, Tippit made a call, did not get
 an answer. Then Tippit quickly left the shop and drove his squad
 car away at a fast speed in the direction of the street that
 he was murdered. 

<p> I have seen this event written about several times in print
 and sometimes the story varies from one account to another.
 Most of the information that researchers have used to describe
 this event are their interpretation of an interview done by
 former Dallas Morning News reporter Earl Golz of Louis Cortinas.
 

<p> It has been my pleasure to correspond and speak with Earl on
 several occasions and it is with Earl’s permission that his
 transcript of the interview is published here for the first
 time and I thank him for his generosity. 

<p> Earl would interview people to get background information for
 his many Kennedy assassination articles. He would tape record
 the interview and then would make transcripts of some of these
 interviews. The following interview was done on December 2,
 1981 

<p> Cortinas said he “was behind the counter at the Top Ten Record
 Shop, 338 W. Jefferson Blvd., on Nov. 22, 1963. Police officer
 J.D. Tippit parked his car on Bishop Street, apparently heading
 north, and came into the shop in a hurry and asked Cortinas
 if he could use the phone at the counter.” Cortinas said he
 recalls “ Tippit being in such a hurry that he had to ask people
 in the narrow aisle to step aside.” 

<p> “Tippit said nothing over the phone, apparently not getting
 an answer. Cortinas said he stood there long enough for it to
 ring about 7 or 8 times. Tippit hung up the phone and walked
 off fast he was worried or upset about something” Cortinas said.
 

<p> “Tippit sped away in his squad car across Jefferson down Bishop
 to Sunset, where he ran a stopsign and turned right down Sunset.”
 Cortinas “could not determine whether he had anyone else in
 his car.” 

<p> “Maybe 10, no more than 10 minutes Tippit had left when I heard
 he had been shot on the radio.” Cortinas said. Cortinas then
 “Drove off in Dub Stark’s new car down Sunset, across Zang and
 up Tenth. He noticed the commotion around Texas Theatre and
 got out of the car in time to see police taking Oswald out of
 theatre. People were trying to strike Oswald and spit at him
 but contrary to some stories he didn’t say a thing as police
 escorted him to a squad car and literally threw him in, bumping
 his head hard on the door.” 

<p> Cortinas “then drove on to Parkland and stood with other people
 looking. 

<p> Cortinas said “Tippit would come into the record shop occasionally
 to use the phone while on duty.” Cortinas who was 36 years old
 this past October would have been 18 in 1963. He “knew Tippit
 to talk to from other experience, having been ticketed many
 times for drag racing near Austin’s Barbecue.” Cortinas also
 knew Tippit from seeing him at Austin’s, where he knew the waitress
 he thought Tippit was having an affair with.” 

<p> He also “saw Tippit as a security guard or bouncer at Ship’s,
 a private club in the 2100 block of Fort Worth Avenue and at
 the Theatre Lounge strip joint run by Barney L. Weinstein at
 1326 Jackson.” 

<p> Cortinas recalls “trying to get into Ship’s under age early
 in 1960’s when he spotted Tippit sitting in a raised portion
 of the entranceway to check people coming in. He and other boys
 climbed onto the roof of the Theatre Lounge to watch the girls
 through a skylight, also in the early 1960’s” He remembered
 “Chris Colt’s 45 from there” 

<p> “Tippit was an odd guy,” Cortinas said “Some times I would come
 into Austin’s with my girlfriend and tap him on the shoulder
 and he would turn around and shake hands and act like a good
 friend. Other times when I did that, he turned around and gave
 me a look like he didn’t know me and didn’t want to know me.”
 

<p> That is the end of the original Earl Golz transcript. 

<p> At this point I wish to thank Earl Golz, the original source
 of these interviews for all the time and additional information
 he has provided me. In my conversations with Earl, he informed
 me that these interviews were part of his research for an article
 that was published in the December 1982 issue of Gallery magazine.

<p> Earl also informed me that he had to go and seek out Cortinas
 and Stark and as far as he could tell “they were not wanting
 publicity nor were they prone to exaggerate.” 

<p> Both Cortinas and Stark were interviewed individually and were
 conducted in person. These men had gone their separate ways
 and had not seen each other for years at the time of these interviews.
 

<p> Cortinas and Stark told Earl basically the same story as we
 can see by the interview notes. I respect Earl Golz’s experience
 in writing dozens of articles for the Dallas Morning News and
 interviewing hundreds of people in order to obtain the information
 used in them, so I asked Earl about the feeling he got from
 the Cortinas interview. Earl related that Louis Cortinas “was
 very relaxed and forthcoming in talking with him about this
 incident.” Cortinas was hard to locate and Earl wished to go
 to Cortinas’ house for the interview because he “thought he
 could obtain a more complete description of the event.” Earl
 mentioned to Cortinas that he was interested in information
 about Tippit making a hurried phone call at the Top Ten Record
 Shop and in Earl’s words “the story flowed out of him much in
 the same way as Stark had told him previously” 

<p> In the past few years I have been contacted by several researchers
 who have come across this information in one form or another
 and have questioned the accuracy of these statements and the
 veracity of the witnesses. 

<p> Let us look at some of the statements that Cortinas made that
 some researchers have questioned. 

<p>1: Cortinas could not have seen if Tippit’s squad car was parked
 on Bishop Ave.

<p> This is true, the record shop is one store east of Bishop Ave.
 (see photograph) and you can not see south on Bishop Ave. from
 the inside of the record shop. A possible explanation is that
 when Tippit left the record shop Cortinas saw him walk out the
 door and immediately walk in the direction of Bishop, then seconds
 later he observed Tippit’s squad car speed across Jefferson
 Blvd. going North on Bishop Ave.. Cortinas could have assumed
 that Tippit’s squad car was parked pointing north on Bishop
 Ave.. The reason being that Cortinas’ observation of the short
 amount of time in which Tippit was able to get to the car and
 get across the intersection of West Jefferson Blvd. traveling
 north meant that Tippit’s squad car was close by and pointing
 in the direction he drove in seconds later. 

<p>2: Cortinas could not have seen Tippit run a stop sign and go
 right on Sunset from behind the counter at the record shop.

<p>View out the front window of the record shop from behind the
 counter.

<p> I have taken photographs of the view out the front window of
 the record shop from behind the counter (thank you Mike Polk!)
 and one of those photographs is reproduced at right. Directly
 across West Jefferson Blvd. from the Top Ten there is parking
 along the East Side of Bishop Ave.. The first impression is
 that the cars parked there would block the view of the intersection
 of Bishop Ave and Sunset Ave. from behind the counter. When
 I was behind the counter taking the photographs I was able to
 see if a car was making a right turn on Sunset Ave. in the gap
 between the windshield of the cars and the outside wall of the
 building, even if there were several cars parked along the east
 side of Bishop Ave. Also from behind the counter you can clearly
 observe if a car would go straight or take a left at the corner
 of Sunset Ave. and Bishop Ave. 

<p>3:Tippit had to have left the record shop more than 10 minutes
 before it was announced on the radio that a police officer had
 been shot in Oak Cliff.

<p> We will probably never know the exact time that Tippit left
 the Top Ten Record Shop or the exact moment that he was killed.
 Every person’s perception of time is different, to some 10 minutes
 could seem like an hour and to others it could feel like less
 than a few minutes. Correctly estimating time is a skill that
 many people do not have. 

<p> One of the first reports of a policeman being shot in Oak Cliff
 was on Dallas radio station KLIF at 1:33 P.M. (National Archives)
 Cortinas then drove off in Stark’s new car around the neighborhood
 and then noticed a commotion at the Texas Theatre and watched
 as the police brought out Oswald and threw him into the police
 car, these activities at the theatre were at about 1:50 P.M.
 (Channel One Transcript-Kimbrough/Shearer) 

<p> If we go back 10 minutes from the first radio report of the
 shooting at 1:33 that would mean Tippit was in the record shop
 at 1:23 P.M. which is an impossibility since this was the approximate
 time that Tippit’s body arrived at Methodist Hospital by ambulance.
 (HSCA interview of ambulance driver Clayton Butler, RIF 180-10107-10180).
 The timeframes here suggest the possibility that Cortinas could
 have heard the news on the radio at 1:33P.M. or later and then
 drove around until he saw the activity at the Texas Theatre.
 Cortinas’ estimate that he heard the radio broadcast 10 minutes
 after Tippit left could be an honest mistake explained by Cortinas’
 perception of 10 minutes as compared with the actual amount
 of time that had gone by. 

<p>4: Some researchers point out that the record shop is too far
 from Tippit’s District #78 for Tippit to use the phone occasionally
 while he was on duty.

<p> This is true; district #78 is about 4.5 miles east of the record
 shop, at it’s closest point. According to Sergeant Calvin Bud
 Owens “Tippit had been assigned to District 78 for about 6 months
 to a year and had previously been assigned to patrol Districts
 83 and 84 for three years” CE 2985 pg.8. In Warren Commission
 Exhibit #2645 Assistant Chief of Police Batchelor states in
 regards to patrol district assignments that “as many as two
 or three districts are frequently patrolled by one squad car.
 The northern part of District 83 is about 1.5 miles from the
 record shop. 

<p> In the event of manpower shortages, Dallas police squads might
 have to take on the responsibility of a bordering district that
 could not be covered because of a lack of personnel (testimony
 of Sergeant Calvin Bud Owens W.C.Volume 7 pg. 80). If this happened
 Tippit would have to cover his regular districts 83 and 84 and
 possibly the bordering district 92. If this situation occasionally
 existed it would have put him in the district that the record
 shop was in (Putnam Exhibit #1). 

<p> Also a review of the Texas Attorney General’s file on J.D. Tippit
 shows that during Tippit’s police career he had worked the majority
 of the time in different Oak Cliff patrol districts. I tracked
 the documented calls that Tippit responded to in this file and
 learned that in his 11 years on the police force he was at various
 locations many times on official police business in Oak Cliff.
 These locations ranged from .4 miles to 7 miles away from the
 record shop in his career. These locations only represent the
 documented calls and by the close proximity to the Top Ten of
 some of these calls, the opportunity did exist for Tippit to
 stop into the record shop. My friend and one of the top Tippit
 researchers in the world Professor Bill Pulte interviewed one
 of Tippit’s superior officers Lieutenant JW Finley several times.
 During one of these interviews Finley explained to Bill that
 “J.D. Tippit was an officer who tended to leave his assigned
 patrol district rather often”. These could be some explanations
 for Tippit being in close proximity to the record shop and using
 the phone there on occasion. 

<p>5: J.D. Tippit never worked at the Ship’s Grill or the Theatre
 Lounge.

<p> In my conversations with Earl Golz we talked at length about
 his efforts in 1982 to corroborate this part of the story. Earl
 told me that he “worked very hard at locating the people that
 owned or were working at the Ship’s Grill in 1963” and was unable
 to do so in 1982. It is interesting to note that the Ship’s
 Grill was located at 2138 Fort Worth Ave and that J.D. Tippit
 worked security as a deterrent to trouble on Sunday afternoons
 at the Steven’s Park Theatre which was located at 2007 Fort
 Worth Ave. Earl contacted some of Tippit’s fellow police officers
 who knew him well to try and corroborate these stories about
 the Ship’s Grill and Theatre Lounge. Bill Anglin, Tippit’s neighbor
 and close friend told Earl “No sir he never worked at the Theater
 Lounge” “As far as I know there’s not any truth to that at all,
 the reason I say that is that it was a violation with our code
 of conduct for us to be employed by such places where alcoholic
 beverages were served” “As a personal friend I never heard him
 mention anything about a job up there like that” Morris Brumley
 was also a long time friend of Tippit’s, he told Earl “ He never
 did work those joints, he (Tippit) worked that district when
 he was a young patrolman, but as far as working there off duty
 they didn’t even permit officers back then to work around anyplace
 that served alcoholic beverages” Brumley went on to say “We
 checked all that out (Tippit working at the Theater Lounge)
 that they had seen him in there, that there was a connection
 and there wasn’t.” “I worked Intelligence and Vice and we shook
 that Theater Lounge down a lot and J.D. Tippit never did work
 there at any of those places.” In a conversation with Earl he
 told me that recently he had talked to someone who surprised
 him by saying very nonchalantly that Tippit certainly was a
 doorman or bouncer at the Ship’s Grill. Earl said this source
 is “someone who would have been pretty knowledgeable.” This
 is all the information that I was able to gather on the Ship’s
 Grill and Theater Lounge allegations. As the reader can see
 by the conflicting stories that it is unclear as to the exact
 circumstances surrounding this issue. What do you think? 

<p> Some of the statements that Louis Cortinas made that can be
 confirmed are, 

<l>J.D. Tippit worked at Austin’s Barbecue. Source Warren Commission
 Exhibit # 2985 pg. 6, also HSCA interviews of Austin Cook, (HSCA
 RIF 180-10087-10363) and Marie Tippit, (HSCA RIF 180-10120-10047)
 

<l>Cortinas worked at the Top Ten Record Shop and observed Tippit’s
 hurried phone call minutes before he was killed. Source: Earl
 Golz interview of W.R. Dub Stark 

<l>He thought that Tippit was having an affair with a waitress at
 Austin’s Source: HSCA RIF 180-10107-10004  Earl Golz interviewed
 Dub Stark shortly before he interviewed Louis Cortinas on December
 2,1981. The notes from Dub Stark’s interview are not as extensive
 and orderly as the Cortinas interview but there is much information
 given. The first part of Earl’s notes are random rough notes
 that are as follows. 

<p> J.W. Stark (Dub) 

<p> Oswald and kids and Marina in there shopping. 

<p> Oh yes he thought Oswald and Tippit knew each other. 

<p> Ruby traded in there all of the time. 

<p> Stripper too who was close to Ruby, she is now dead probably
 could relate much. 

<p> 1963 owned Top 10 Records, about 1965 he sold it and right next
 door J.W. Stark Garden and Lawn. 

<p> Said Tippit parked patrol car outside, partner not with him
 on this occasion, asked permission to use the phone Before Texas
 Theatre commotion- minutes- had just enough time to get to the
 place where he was shot and certainly within the hour. 

<p> Stark had young employee 11/22/63 “curious story” that employee
 left store to go to theatre and said same guy earlier that morning
 purchased ticket to Dick Clark Show, cancelled after assassination.
 

<p> The second page of notes are in the form of a paragraph summarizing
 certain parts of the interview and are as follows. 

<p> W.R. (Dub) Stark 

<p> Stark Lawn + Garden 336 West Jefferson Blvd. 

<p> On November 22,1963 he operated Top Ten Record Shop, 338 West
 Jefferson. 

<p> Stark claims that Tippit came into the record shop only minutes
 before he was shot. Made a phone call and left in a hurry. He
 was alone in his squad car, didn’t say anything. Stark says
 Tippit often came in store to buy records for his children.
 He also stopped by while on duty to use the phone, several times.
 

<p> Stark claims he sold Oswald a ticket to Dick Clark Show at 7:30
 A.M. November 22. Still had the stub after the assassination.
 

<p> This is the end of Earl’s rough notes on the Dub Stark interview.
 

<p>Ad from the Dallas Times Herald, Nov. 22, 1963. Notice that tickets
 are available from the Top Ten Record Shops.

<p> I would like to examine the statements made by Dub Stark to
 Earl Golz. In some ways these notes create more questions than
 they answer. Many researchers have contacted me with questions
 and their own ideas about what might have actually happened.
 Some researchers have asked me why I have given so much attention
 to the Top Ten Record Shop and the events that took place there.
 

<p> I believe that if we could find out more information about the
 last minutes of J.D. Tippit’s life it might help to unravel
 some of the still unknown events in this critical time. Recently
 I have updated my “Car 10 Where Are You?” article that first
 appeared on the internet in July 1997. The new information,
 much of which is being presented for the first time shows that
 Tippit’s actions in the last minutes of his life are consistent
 with someone who is frantically looking for someone. Please
 see the updated  “Car 10” article. To the best of my knowledge
 neither Dub Stark nor Louis Cortinas have ever been questioned
 “officially” by any law enforcement agency. We only have the
 very hard work of Earl Golz and a few other researchers that
 have spoken to Stark and Cortinas about the events on November
 22, 1963.

<p> These interviews have taken place since the early 1980’s. I
 wanted to speak to someone who knew Dub at the time of the assassination,
 to see if he had told anybody about the events of that day.
 If this was the case it could help to corroborate what he had
 told independent investigators almost 20 years later.

<p> Because of Dub’s poor health, I was unable to get an interview
 with him for this article. I told Mike Polk, the current owner
 of the Top Ten Record Shop about me trying to talk to someone
 who knew Dub in 1963 and then he recommended that I meet Dub’s
 niece Wanda Barnard.

<p> Since my meeting and subsequent conversations with Wanda she
 has provided me with much valuable information and has corroborated
 certain statements. Wanda was able to provide these biographical
 notes on Dub Stark. Dub was born on February 28, 1910 in Wise
 County Texas. He was one of 9 children and is currently 88 years
 old. Dub was a prisoner of war in World War 2 and upon returning
 to the United States he lived in California for some time.

<p> He moved back to Texas in the early 1950’s and bought the Top
 Ten Record Shop which he sold in 1965 and opened a Garden Shop
 next door to the record shop. Shortly after he sold the record
 shop things did not work out for the new owner and Dub regained
 ownership of the Top Ten until he sold it to Mike Polk in the
 early 1980’s.

<p> Wanda relates that Dub has many friends and was very popular
 in the Jefferson Boulevard area of Oak Cliff. Dub is very honest
 and does not have a bad word to say about anybody, that is exactly
 what Mike Polk told me about Dub the first time that I met him.
 Dub is also an accomplished piano and organ player, is very
 artistic and enjoys painting. 

<p> On my first meeting with Wanda I asked her to tell me what Dub
 had told her about the Events of November 22, 1963 and when
 Dub had told her. Wanda was able to confirm many of the statements
 that Dub had made to Earl Golz and he had been telling this
 same story since the time of the assassination. Thank you very
 much Wanda for corroborating these important statements. Here
 are some of the statements that Dub made to Earl Golz and the
 supporting information. 

<p> “Oswald and kids and Marina in there shopping” 

<p> The Oswalds lived at 604 Elsbeth Street Apartment 2 Oak Cliff
 from November 3, 1962 to March 2, 1963 and then moved around
 the corner to 214 West Neeley Street and moved out on May 1,
 1963. (Warren Commission Exhibit #1963). These locations are
 8/10s of a mile from the Top Ten and it is possible that the
 Oswalds were in there shopping. The Oswald’s younger daughter
 Rachel was born on October 20, 1963 and could not have been
 there in this time frame, but their older daughter June was
 born February 15, 1962 in Russia before this time frame. If
 the Oswalds were in the Top Ten it would most likely have been
 with one child. Wanda related that Dub had seen Oswald in the
 Top Ten before the assassination on occasion. 

<p> “Ruby traded in there all the time”

<p> Wanda’s statements and recollections confirm this. 

<p> The statement that “Tippit parked his patrol car outside, partner
 not with him on this occasion” has been questioned by some researchers.
 It is true that on November 22, 1963 Tippit was working District
 78 alone, but a review of the Dallas Police personnel file for
 J.D. Tippit reveals that he had partners at several times in
 his 11 year career. Here are the names of Tippit’s partners
 and the documented dates that they worked together. 

<p>D.A. Byrd 

<p> January 23, 1953

<p>J.C. Wallace 

<p> April 23, 1955

<p>F. Willis 

<p> October 14, 1955

<p>D.H. Williams 

<p> April 28, 1956

<p>Grady H. Williams 

<p> January 24, 1959

<p>H. M. Ashcraft 

<p> March 20, 1959

<p>R.C. Wagner 

<p> April 23, 1959

<p> Also Owen C. Box and Murray Jackson were also partners with
 Tippit at different times. Source: interview of Murray Jackson.
 On September 2, 1956 Tippit and partner D. Hankins shot to death
 Leonard Garland in Club 80, 441 West Commerce Street, Dallas.
 

<p> Since Dub had owned the Top Ten since the early 1950’s and Tippit
 had worked several Oak Cliff districts with partners it is possible
 that Dub had seen Tippit with other officers when he came by
 the Top Ten. 

<p> Wanda has corroborated that Dub had told her and other individuals
 the story of Tippit making a hurried phone call a few minutes
 before he was shot and letting Louis Cortinas go see what all
 the activity was on Jefferson Blvd. since the day that it happened.
 

<p> “Tippit often came in store to buy records for his children”
 and “He also stopped by while on duty to use the phone, several
 times.”, are statements that Dub had also related to Wanda and
 other individuals since 1963. According to Tippit’s widow Marie,
 J.D. “liked to listen to country and popular music” source:
 Warren Commission Exhibit #2985 page 6. 

<p> According to Dub, Lee Harvey Oswald “bought a ticket to the
 Dick Clark show at 7:30 A.M. on November 22, 1963” It is a well
 established fact that at 7:30 that morning Oswald was riding
 to work with Buell Frazier (Warren Commission Exhibit # 2936)
 and had spent the previous night at the Paine home in Irving,
 Texas with Marina and his children. 

<p> Dub has told this same story to Wanda and others since the day
 that it happened. Wanda tells me that she is certain that Dub
 knew who Oswald was and that he is being honest in his identifying
 him, but she has no explanation for Oswald being in two places
 at the same time. Researcher John Armstrong has spoken to me
 several times about this incident. He believes that this is
 one of many occurrences providing strong evidence of the existence
 of two Oswalds (please see “Harvey and Lee” by John Armstrong
 for more information). 

<p> A final word about this incident. On December 3, 1963 a Mr.
 John Whitten telephoned the FBI that he had “heard” that Lee
 Harvey Oswald was in the Top Ten Record Shop on the Morning
 of November 22, 1963. Oswald bought a ticket of some kind and
 left. Then sometime later Oswald returned to the record shop
 and wanted to buy another ticket. At this time officer J.D.
 Tippit was in the store but it was apparently was a coincidence.
 (Please see reproduced document)

<p> Upon seeing this document Wanda related that she did not know
 a John Whitten and she has never heard Dub mention his name
 and she does not think that Dub knows him. Wanda had never heard
 about Oswald returning at the same time that Tippit was in the
 store and that Dub had never told this story. Is it possible
 that as the story about Oswald being at the Top Ten was being
 circulated from person to person in Oak Cliff and that it picked
 up the embellishments of Oswald returning for another ticket
 by the time the story got to Whitten? Then at that point Whitten
 called the FBI with this information? 

<p> The notation made by the FBI at the bottom of the Whitten document
 says “No Action- Oswald was at work all morning 11/22/63” It
 is too bad that the FBI did not follow through on this occasion,
 they could have gotten vital information about Tippit’s final
 minutes from Dub Stark. Wanda assured me that if Dub said he
 sold Oswald a ticket that she is sure that this is what he believes
 happened. Once again we have another incident that could be
 explained but that the actual explanation might never be known.
 


