
URL: http://memory.loc.gov/learn/start/cpyrt
<h>
 Questions and Answers: Copyright and Fair Use

<p>How do I use the Restriction Statements that accompany the American
 Memory collections?
The Library of Congress assesses materials
 for legal considerations prior to placing items online (see
 legal assessment). The Restriction Statement that accompanies
 each American Memory collection provides known information regarding
 ownership of materials in the collection. If known, we include
 contacts for permission. In some cases the Restriction Statement
 will indicate that material in a particular collection may be
 used freely; in other cases the Restriction Statement may only
 be a starting point for your inquiry.

<p>What is copyright?
 Copyright refers to the author's (creators
 of all sorts such as writers, photographers, artists, film producers,
 composers, and programmers) exclusive right to reproduce, prepare
 derivative works, distribute copies, and publicly perform and
 display their works. These rights may be transferred or assigned
 in whole or in part in writing by the author. Unless otherwise
 agreed in writing, work created by an employee is usually owned
 by the employer. The U.S. Copyright Act gets its authority from
 Article 1, Section 8, cl. 8 of the U.S. Constitution.

<p>If there is no copyright notice, does that mean there is no copyright?

 The absence of a copyright notice does not mean that there is
 no copyright. Copyright protection exists automatically from
 the moment of creation in a tangible fixed form, which is generally
 considered to include electronic form. A notice is not required
 to protect copyright.

<p>When can I assume that there is no copyright protection for a
 work?
 Work created by employees of the federal government as
 a part of their job is in the public domain, i.e., not protected
 by copyright. This is why you may use American Life Histories:
 Manuscripts from the Federal Writers' Project, 1936-1940, materials
 in American Memory without being concerned with infringing on
 someone's copyright (other legal concerns may be raised in the
 Restriction Statements). Remember to credit your sources, even
 for government materials.

<p>Does copyright give the owner an absolute monopoly?
 Although
 copyright is an exclusive right - a sort of restricted monopoly
 - it is limited in various respects. Authors control only rights
 specified under the copyright law and may not control other
 uses. Copyright is also limited by duration and, under American
 law, by fair use. As to duration, copyrights do eventually expire.
 Where possible, the Restriction Statement accompanying each
 collection notes that copyright protection has expired.

<p>In general, copyrights last for the life of the author, plus
 70 years. In some works, however, the rules for calculating
 duration are complex. You should explore some of the U.S. Copyright
 Office's suggested Internet sites to learn more about calculating
 duration of copyright in general. As to Fair Use, see the following
 section.

<p>Where can I go for more information on copyright?
 Start with
 the U.S. Copyright Office in the Library of Congress. They maintain
 a list of Copyright Information Circulars and Form Letters.
 Scroll to find "Circular 21-Reprodutions of Copyrighted Works
 by Educators and Librarians." In addition, the U.S. Copyright
 Office maintains a list of Internet Resources.

<p>What is "fair use"?Fair use is an exception to the exclusive
 protection of copyright under American law. It permits certain
 limited uses without permission from the author or owner. Depending
 on the circumstances, copying may be considered "fair" for the
 purpose of criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including
 multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship or research.

<p>To determine whether a specific use under one of these categories
 is "fair," courts are required to consider the following factors:
 

<l>the purpose and character of the use, including whether such
 use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational
 purposes;

<l>the nature of the copyrighted work;

<l>the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation
 to the copyrighted work as a whole (is it long or short in length,
 that is, are you copying the entire work, as you might with
 an image, or just part as you might with a long novel); and
 

<l>the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value
 of the copyrighted work.

<p>Keep in mind that even in an educational setting, it is not fair
 use to copy for a "commercial motive" or to copy "systematically,"
 that is, "where the aim is to substitute for subscription or
 purchase." No factor by itself will determine whether a particular
 use is "fair." All four factors must be weighed together in
 light of the circumstances. See the U.S. Copyright Office's
 Copyright Information Circulars and Form Letters for "Circular
 21-Reproductions of Copyrighted Works by Educators and Librarians."

<p>For classroom use, how does "fair use" apply?
 The Internet magnifies
 the possibility for making an infinite number of perfect copies,
 which changes what it means to be "fair." Be careful when using
 material from the Internet; keep in mind the four factors of
 the fair use test, or get permission from the owner. The National
 Digital Library Program goes to great effort to identify possible
 copyright owners for items in American Memory, though we are
 often unable to ascertain possible rights holders because of
 the age of the materials. When known to us, we will provide
 that information in the Restriction Statements accompanying
 the collections.

<p>Can you describe a few examples based on questions from teachers
 who use the Learning Page?
 Sure...here are a few. The general
 concepts discussed here apply to student and teacher uses.

<l>Is there a difference in fair use guidelines for public, non-profit,
 or private schools?

<p>What's fair use in a public school is probably fair use in a
 non-profit private school. However, the more commercial a particular
 use is, the less likely it is to be fair, even if it is educational.
 Thus, if a commercial motive is present, say, for a private,
 commercial test-preparation service, then copying is less likely
 to be fair despite the underlying educational purpose.

<l>A teacher selects a set of 15 photos or other materials from
 the American Life Histories: Manuscripts from the Federal Writers'
 Project, 1936-1940, and makes 5 printed copies of this set for
 small groups to use in a lesson. Is there a limit on the number
 of items in a set, or the number of copies that can be made
 for the lesson?

<p>American Life Histories: Manuscripts from the Federal Writers'
 Project, 1936-1940, was a government-sponsored project. It is
 generally considered to be in the public domain as work by government
 employees. This is also the case for material from the Color
 Photographs from the Farm Security Administration and the Office
 of War Information, 1938-1944. This means that there is no copyright
 protection or restriction, thus you may copy and freely distribute
 any number of these items.

<p>Because there may be publicity or privacy rights in such material,
 however, you need to make an independent assessment of possible
 legal rights with the assistance of the Restriction Statement
 in the collection. In this case there is no limit on the number
 of permissible items in a "set" or the number of permissible
 copies. Remember, this answer is specific to the American Life
 Histories: Manuscripts from the Federal Writers' Project, 1936-1940,
 and Color Photographs from the Farm Security Administration
 and the Office of War Information, 1938-1944. If you think the
 materials might be protected by copyright, see the Restriction
 Statement in each American Memory collection.

<l>This lesson will be used in other sections of the same class
 in the same semester. This is still a one-time use with different
 students. Is this fair?

<p>As long as the material to be copied is in the public domain,
 you can copy for one class or many and for one or more semesters.
 If you wish to use material that is NOT in the public domain,
 and for which copyright protection exists, then your copying
 is more likely to be considered fair if it is spontaneous ("Gee,
 I saw this last night at home on my computer and it would be
 great for tomorrow's class!"). The more sections and the more
 semesters you plan to copy particular materials for, the less
 likely your use is to be considered fair. If you want to use
 copyrighted material repeatedly, you should obtain permission
 from the copyright owner.

<l>The lesson will be used by different teachers teaching the same
 class. Fair?

<p>Again, the more copying that occurs, the less likely the use
 is to be fair. The less spontaneous the copying is, the less
 fair. If you are making digital copies or copies that will be
 available online, it will be less likely to be fair than if
 you made paper copies, given the potential impact on the copyright
 owner's market.

<l>This lesson will be used year after year by the same teacher
 at the same point in the plan of studies for the course.

<p>Lesson planning indicates a systematic planning that is not terribly
 spontaneous and thus less likely to be fair. If you plan to
 use the same items year in, year out, think seriously about
 seeking permission. Document your efforts. You need to make
 an independent assessment - the Library of Congress makes the
 American Memory digitized historical collections available for
 the limited purposes noted in the Restriction Statements. We
 cannot and do not "warrant" that subsequent uses are fair. Incidentally,
 copyright owners may be willing to give permission for your
 use without charge. Once you find an owner, let them know what
 your specific intention is (who will use it, for what, where,
 when, how, why - the basics). Always credit sources.

<l>This lesson will be copied for each student in the section of
 the class.

<p>If the material is in the public domain, copy the materials for
 each student in the class with no worries. If the work is copyrighted,
 it is probably fair if you make paper copies for each student
 in a section of a single class for a single semester. For more
 on electronic copies, see the next few situations.

<l>A teacher prepares a lesson for a World Wide Web presentation
 using photographs and documents from the Library of Congress
 (not linking to them in American Memory).

<p>Because the teacher is placing material on a site where anyone
 can copy or download the material, the use is less likely to
 be fair than if the teacher prepares the same lesson for a local
 area network, or on a stand-alone machine. If material is protected
 by copyright, it would be wise to get permission for the World
 Wide Web presentation. Always keep in mind all four of the fair
 use factors in the Fair Use section of this page.

<l>Students in a project-based curriculum prepare presentations
 with multiple examples of their topic. How many is too many?
 How much of a text is too much?

<p>As you know from the above examples, the medium in which the
 student presents the examples contributes to the fairness of
 the use. If the examples are placed on a local network for a
 short period or printed only for class members, it may be fair,
 depending on a balancing of all Fair Use factors. It is probably
 not fair to display the same material on a World Wide Web site.

<p>The question of how much is too much is also hard to define.
 A page or two of a two hundred page novel may be acceptable,
 though if you copy a particularly significant portion, such
 as the two pages that make the book marketable (the end of a
 mystery, for example), you may diminish the market value - which
 would weigh heavily against one of the fair use factors). A
 mere two lines from a short poem might also be unfair for the
 same reason.

<l>A student prepares a multimedia presentation using American Memory
 resources. How does a student credit sources? Is permission
 to reproduce materials needed?

<p>Everyone who uses materials from American Memory should credit
 the American Memory collections of the Library of Congress.
 See Citing Electronic Sources for suggestions. Further, users
 should credit particular items and collections which are described
 in Restriction Statements within the collections. The Library
 of Congress does not grant or withhold permission to use the
 materials that are made available online. You must contact the
 owner for any uses that exceed the limits of fair use. Proper
 credit is always an indication of good research.

<l>May I link to American Memory? Do I need permission?

<p>If you wish to link to our site, you may do so even without permission
 as long as your link makes it clear that there is a transition
 to another site, and that you do not present the link in a way
 that implies that the Library of Congress or the National Digital
 Library Program is endorsing a particular product, service,
 or organization. However, the Library of Congress does like
 to hear how its site is being used, so please send an email
 message to the National Digital Library Program mailbox as a
 courtesy. 

<h>Copyright Guidelines

<p>Many copyright guides are available on the Web.  Several authoritative
 sites are linked above.

<p>Other sites include:

<p>Copyright with Cyberbee by Linda Joseph
 http://www.cyberbee.com/copyrt.html

 The site offers an overview of basic copyright information for
 teachers and students and includes a lesson plan, an interactive
 activity for students and links to additional sites.

<p>Copyright and FairUse Guidelines for Teachers by Hall Davidson

 http://www.halldavidson.net/copyright_chart.pdf
 These concise
 guidelines are offered in an easily downloaded PDF chart.

<p>Copyright and Fair Use in the Classroom, on the Internet, and
 the World Wide Web &ndash; from the University of Maryland

 http://www.umuc.edu/library/copy.shtml
 The site offers an excellent
 set of guidelines for all media types and includes practical
 information about seeking permissions for using the published
 work of others.

<p>Permission Request Template by David Warlick, Landmark Schools
 Project
 http://www.landmark-project.com/permission1.php
 The
 site provides online tools for both teachers and students to
 generate e-mail requests to cite other&rsquo;s work. 


