
URL: http://metrodad.typepad.com/index/2005/09/say_hello_to_my.html
<h>Poppycock from a cocky pop!

<h>Say hello to my little friend

<p>A few months after the Peanut was born, I wrote a post about
 MY pregnancy weight.  The post was appropriately called "Hey,
 Dude.  Do my tits look bigger to you?".  Essentially, it chronicled
 the fact that I had gained over 15 pounds during the BossLady's
 pregnancy and the ensuing few months after the Peanut's birth.
 As it turns out, I wasn't the only new father to experience
 this phenomenon so I didn't pay it much mind, figuring the weight
 would magically disappear after a few months.  

<p>Well, a little while ago, I noticed that the BossLady had lost
 all of her pregnancy weight but that I was still stuck with
 all of mine.  I'm 6' tall so I can carry a little extra weight
 but now when I'm sitting on the can, I find myself fascinated
 by this new little pot-belly friend of mine.  We're relatively
 unaccustomed to one another so I like jiggling him every once
 in a while to see how he'll react.  I haven't named him yet
 but I'm leaning towards "Hector" because I think that's a fun
 name for a pot belly.  

<p>Anyway, with the Peanut's 1st birthday coming up, I decided that
 it was time to take drastic action.  Now, for those of you who
 don't know me, I'm one of those people who doesn't do anything
 half-assed.  So rather than gently ease into a new fitness regime,
 I went charging in headfirst.  Starting about a month ago, I
 cut out all carbs from my diet, limited my caloric intake and
 began working out like a madman.  I've been hitting the gym
 about 5 times per week and not only logging some serious miles
 but also lifting weights as well.  I've quit coffee and drink
 about a gallon of green tea per day.  And if I eat any more
 skinless chicken, I'm going to start clucking.      

<p>I definitely do feel better.  So far, I've lost about 8 pounds.
  And my body is starting to regain lean muscle mass and definition.
  But guess what?  Hector's not fucking going anywhere!  It's
 like he's decided that my body is the perfect host environment.
  We're like two gunslingers in the middle of a standoff.  I
 feel like a landlord trying to get rid of a deadbeat tenant
 who doesn't pay rent and sits on his ass all day drinking beer.
  Regardless, there just ain't enough room in town for the both
 of us so one of us is going to have to leave.

<p>I just hope it's him and not me. 

<p>And by the way, is it me or are we all getting older?  And just
 when exactly did that start happening?  I never got any notices
 in the mail.  Did you?  What the fuck?  I feel like I fell asleep
 by the pool at the age of 25 but woke up and noticed that I
 was almost 40.  Anyone else feeling me out there?  Shit, I'm
 hungry.  I haven't crapped in like three days.  I think I'd
 kill for a slice of pizza.  Or a big-ass juicy burger.  Fuck
 you, Hector!  You hear me?  Get the hell out of my house!  
 

<p>Phew.  Ok.  I'm done now.  I think my blood sugar dropped there
 for a minute.  But I can't be the only parent or new dad out
 there struggling to get back into pre-progeny shape, can I?
  What's the deal, people?  Will I make it back to shore or am
 I too far away from the beach?  Because ever since the Peanut
 was born, I feel like my metabolism has ground to a complete
 halt.  Why should the BossLady's pregnancy affect ME like that?
  Was it all the breast milk I drank?

<h>TrackBack

<h>Comments

<p>I've had a Hector ever since I was eight, man, even when I was
 running 40-50 miles a week in high school and weighed almost
 nothing I had my own little Hector. The kids I'd beat in cross
 country races told me I had an advantage because with that gut
 I could roll down the hills. Make peace with him, dude.

<p>And keep working out, even though you're making me feel incredibly
 lazy. I commend you. 

<p>I know what you mean, Metro. I gained weight during my wife's
 pregnancy too. Everyone said I would lose it when our baby started
 walking and I would be forced to chase her around everywhere.
 Guess what? Never happened. Welcome to the Middle Ages!

<p>I think it's a farce. A attempt by our bodies to have the last
 laugh. Fight the good fight, Sugar. (Especially since you'll
 have to be fighting for both of us!) If all else fails, you
 could have Hector removed...?

<p>I'm a new reader to the blog, MD and I haven't been through all
 your archives yet. But that post about you drinking your wife's
 breast milk was hysterical. I can't wait to read all your past
 entries.

<p>My wife is due in 4 months. I haven't gained any weight yet but
 I anticipate it happening soon. I'm slowly starting to lose
 the willpower to resist all the cupcakes she's been devouring
 since she got pregnant. 

<p>Keep up the good fight, Metro! It took me a full two years to
 lose all the weight I gained during my wife's pregnancy and
 the first few months of our son's life. It was damn hard. I
 gained abut 25 pounds. Back in my 20's, I would have been able
 to lose that weight in a month or two. I couldn't believe it
 took me two years. My wife's pregnant again now and our house
 is loaded up with sugar cookies and ice cream. I'm determined
 not to crack and succumb to temptation this time. I need to
 keep this weight off! 

<p>Just wanted to say I came over here from the link at BloggingBaby
 today. This was hilarious! I've got to show it to my DH. Not
 only will he love your site but we were just talking the other
 day about the fact that he hasn't lost any of HIS pregnancy
 weight either. He says he's going to wait until after football
 season to get back in shape. Yeah, right!

<p>I feel really guilty about telling you this but I actually lost
 weight when my son was born. I always stay in great shape but
 I eat like a horse and drink lots of alcohol. I continued with
 the trips to the gym, the running, tennis, mountainbiking, etc.
 and not much really changed. 
 I didn't try to lose weight and
 I sure as hell didn't need to but I dropped about five pounds.
 But I do have weird "problems". I always lose weight on vacation
 not matter what I do and when I cut down on workouts and eat
 more than ever before, my weight decreases. 
 I must be that
 large snake in my stommac that take care of the calories.

<p>I know this will sound crazy (and maybe a little effeminate)
 but try hula-hooping. That's right, buy a hula hoop. I've found
 it works better than any other ab crunching gizmo. It'll still
 take time to get rid of the belly (mine is still slowly going
 down) but you build up the muscles underneath. Then, when you
 suck in your gut for those brief moments when you want to pretend
 you're five years younger, it actually looks like you're that
 fit all the time!

<p>It totally works. You just have to remember to close the window
 blinds.

<p>I am forty and decided to get closer to my weight when I was
 in the Army. Yea right. So I posted something about the beer
 belly and was sent to you by the Queen of A herself.

<p>Cardio before the workout. Take ZMA and DHEA and a host of other
 stuff. You are going to have to work hard. Eat carbs and fat,
 your putting the bod in starvation mode, the belly will never
 leave that way.

<p>OMG! This is too hilarious! I just laughed really, really loud.
 No, actually I LAFFED! The whole house is asleep, including
 HANK, my husband. He told me about your site. . . and trust
 me, I'll be back.

<p>
 And um, you went to Cal? Oh bring up the fact that Hank's mascot
 was a "pansy tree" -- that'll get him riled up! And be sure
 to use those exact words! :)

<p>It's both gratifying and a great relief to read your words. I
 thought it was just me, that it was wierd that when I went back
 to work after my wife's pregnancy, none of my suits fitted.
 

<p>I've never had a problem with my weight before, and this little
 paunch has rocked my foundations. I've been the same pant size
 since I was 14, and there's no way I'm going up a size now.

<p>Maybe we could start a new subset of Dadblogs - the 'OH MY GOD
 I"M FAT" dadblogs....


