
URL: http://michaelyon.blogspot.com/2005/08/gates-of-fire.html
<h> Gates of Fire 

<p>The top leaders of the Deuce Four: CSM Robert Prosser and LTC
 Erik Kurilla making the call to Daniel's Mom outside the hospital

<p>Mosul, Iraq

<p>
Combat comes unexpectedly, even in war.

<p>
On Monday, while conducting operations in west Mosul, a voice
 came over the radio saying troops from our brother unit, the
 3-21, were fighting with the enemy in east Mosul on the opposite
 side of the Tigris River. Moments later, SSG Will Shockley relayed
 word to us that an American soldier was dead. We began searching
 for the shooters near one of the bridges on our side of the
 Tigris, but they got away. Jose L. Ruiz was killed in action.

<p>
Although the situation in Mosul is better, our troops still
 fight here every day. This may not be the war some folks had
 in mind a few years ago. But once the shooting starts, a plan
 is just a guess in a party dress.

<p>
The only mission I've seen unfold close to what was planned
 was a B Company raid a few months back. It actually went so
 close to perfect that we could hardly believe it. The sole glitch
 occurred when a Stryker hit an IED, but since nobody was hurt,
 we just continued the mission. In retrospect, it's hard to imagine
 why I didn't write about it. But times are busy, and, apart
 from it going nearly perfectly according to plan, it just seemed
 like any other old raid.

<p>
I had been talking with Captain Matt McGrew about the "The Battle
 for Mosul IV" dispatch, intending to spend the night with him
 and some Iraqi troops at one of their combat outposts, to glean
 additional insight, but the on-going battles in Mosul kept getting
 in the way. On the night before the planned ride-along, the
 obstacle was a big and sudden push of operations and tasks bundled
 in a "surge operation." Operation Lancer Fury was launched without
 notice even to the unit commanders here.

<p>
When I'd sat in on the "warning order" (notice of impending
 operations) for Lancer Fury last week, the plan was so cleverly
 contrived that the leadership at Deuce Four had to grudgingly
 acknowledge its excellence, even though the idea had originated
 from higher-up. In every military unit I have seen, there is
 a prevailing perception that good ideas trickle down from the
 top about as often as water flows uphill, so Lancer Fury apparently
 was a wunder-plan.

<p>
As a "surge" operation, Lancer Fury is sort of a crocodile hunt,
 where our people do things to make the crocodiles come out,
 trying to flush them into predictable directions, or make them
 take certain actions. And when they do, we nail them. The combat
 portion of the Surge amounted to a sophisticated "area ambush"
 that would unfold over the period of about one week.

<p>
This Surge is a complicated piece of work, with multidimensional
 variables and multifarious moving parts. Those parts range literally
 from boots on our feet to satellites zipping overhead. So, of
 course, glitches and snags started occurring the first day.
 Among other things, key gear failed; but overall, the Surge
 was going well. A few terrorists had already been caught in
 the first 24 hours.

<p>
Thursday night, a revised plan had me following some Deuce Four
 soldiers on a midnight raid. They had night vision gear, so
 they moved quickly. I had only moonlight, so I nearly broke
 my leg keeping up. Sleeking around Mosul under moonlight, we
 prowled through the pale glow until we came upon a pond near
 a farmhouse. Recon platoon had already raided one house and
 snagged some suspects, then crept away in the darkness to another
 target close by.

<p>
Five soldiers from Recon—Holt, Ferguson, Yates, Welch and
 Ross—were moving through moon-cast shadows when an Iraqi man
 came out from a farmhouse, his AK-47 rifle hanging by his side.
 Suddenly encircled by the rifles, lights and lasers of four
 soldiers, the man was quickly disarmed. A fifth soldier radioed
 for the interpreter and together they sorted out that he was
 a farmer who thought the soldiers were thieves skulking around
 his property. Recon returned the man his rifle, and started
 making their way back, umbral and silent across the ploughed
 fields.

<p>
During a halt in some trees at the edge of the field, I overheard
 the voice of LTC Kurilla, the commander of the Deuce Four battalion,
 quietly praising one of the soldiers for showing discipline
 in not shooting the farmer. After loading the other suspects
 onto Strykers, we returned to base, where I fell, exhausted,
 at about 3 AM Friday morning.

<p>
The Surge continued while I slept.

<p>
Alpha Company had deployed during the early hours and was conducting
 operations around Yarmook Traffic Circle. SGT Daniel Lama, who
 is as much respected as he is liked, was pulling security in
 an air guard position of his Stryker, when a bullet flew straight
 at his neck, striking him. As he collapsed into the Stryker,
 his body clenched in seizure, fingers frozen, arms and legs
 rigid.

<p>
I seldom get letters in Iraq, but waiting for me in the mailroom
 while I slept was a card. The return address sticker, an American
 flag on it, was from Jefferson, Pennsylvania. The postage stamp
 had an American flag waving. The card inside had a picture of
 an American flag for its cover. The sweet and heartfelt message
 inside ended with-

<p>Please tell our soldiers we care so much for them. -Dan and Connie
 Lama.

<p>
I was still asleep when medics brought their son Daniel to the
 Combat Support Hospital, or "Cash." It's a familiar place for
 Deuce Four soldiers, who've seen some of the most sustained
 and intense urban combat of this war, receiving over 150 Purple
 Hearts in the process.

<p>Bap bap bap! on my door. I jumped up and there was CSM Robert
 Prosser, the top enlisted soldier at Deuce Four. Prosser is
 always professional, always direct: "Sergeant Lama's been shot.
 We're rolling in ten minutes," he said.

<p>
"I'll be there in ten," I answered, instantly awake.

<p>
Within minutes, I was running out my room, still pulling zips
 and fastening buttons, when I came sweating into the TOC. LTC
 Kurilla was there asking a soldier for the latest report on
 Sergeant Lama, now in surgery.

<p>
When a soldier is killed or wounded, the Department of Army
 calls the loved ones, and despite their attempts to be sympathetic,
 the nature of the calls has a way of shocking the families.
 There is just no easy way to say, "Your son got shot today."
 And so, according to men here, the calls sound something like
 this: "We are sorry to inform you that your son has been shot
 in Mosul. He's stable, but that's all we know at this time."

<p>
LTC Kurilla likes to call before the Army gets a chance, to
 tell parents and loved ones the true circumstances. Kurilla
 is direct, but at least people know they are getting an accurate
 account.

<p>
We loaded the Strykers and drove down to the Cash, and there
 was Chaplain Wilson, who might be the most popular man on base.
 Everybody loves him. Often when Chaplain Wilson sees me, he
 will say, "Good morning Michael. How are you today?" But sometimes
 he asks me, "Are you okay?" and I think, Do I look stressed?

<p>
"Of course I feel okay Chaplain Wilson! Don't I look okay?"

<p>
He just laughs, "Yes, Michael, you look fine. Just checking."
 But secretly, every time he asks, I feel a notch better.

<p>
Chaplain Wilson came out from the hospital smiling and explained
 that Daniel (Sergeant Lama) was fine. The seizure was just a
 natural reaction to getting shot in the neck. It was just a
 flesh wound. As if offering proof, Chaplain Wilson said: "When
 they rolled Daniel over, the doctor stuck his finger in Daniel's
 butt to check his prostate, and Daniel said, 'Hey! What are
 you doing?!'" Everybody laughed.

<p>
I changed the subject by snapping a photo of CSM Prosser while
 LTC Kurilla got Mrs. Lama on the Iridium satellite phone. I
 heard the commander telling this soldier's mother that her son
 was fine. Daniel just had some soft tissue damage, nothing major.
 Kurilla told her that he and some other soldiers were at the
 hospital now with Daniel, who was still too groggy to talk.
 "Really, Daniel's okay, and don't worry about it when the Army
 calls you."

<p>
We loaded the Strykers and headed downtown.

<p>
Some Strykers were scouting for the shooters, while others were
 working details at Yarmook Traffic Circle. Major Craig Triscari
 from the 1-17th Infantry from Alaska was with Major Mike Lawrence,
 "Q," and other soldiers, when he noticed a car with its hood
 up. The 1-17th will relieve the 1-24th soon, so Triscari has
 been conducting operations with Deuce Four. The vehicle struck
 Triscari as odd: it hadn't been there a few minutes earlier.

<p>
Automatic weapons fire started coming from at least two places.
 Bullets were kicking up the dust, and we got a radio call that
 troops were in contact at Yarmook Traffic Circle. Sitting inside
 the Stryker with LTC Kurilla and me were two new faces. A young
 2nd lieutenant who had only been in Iraq three weeks, and hadn't
 seen any real combat; and a young specialist, who, per chance,
 is one of the few Deuce Four soldiers who is not a seasoned
 veteran, though he has seen some combat. Also in the Stryker
 was "AH," the interpreter, whose courage under fire I had seen
 before. But the more battle weathered fighters were not there.

<p>
Chris Espindola, the Commander's radio operator, a respected
 and experienced fighter, was down in Baghdad at the Iraqi Criminal
 Court testifying against two terrorists caught by Deuce Four
 months earlier. Like the card in the mailroom, the circumstances
 behind their capture were more germane to the events about to
 unfold than anyone might have guessed at the time.

<p>
Kurilla's reluctance to allow anyone outside Deuce Four ride
 with his soldiers - including writers - is well known. Partly
 because of writers, people hearing about Deuce Four in the news
 might think of Mosul as some kind of thrill ride where everything
 will end okay after a few hairpin turns. This is not true.

<p>
Newcomers, even soldiers, unaccustomed to this level of hostility,
 can only burden the men with added danger. So Kurilla makes
 sure they can be trusted by mentoring new officers and having
 them spend three weeks with him before they are allowed to lead
 men in this unit.

<p>
Some months back, a new lieutenant named Brian Flynn was riding
 with the Kurilla for his first three weeks, when Kurilla spotted
 three men walking adjacent to where Major Mark Bieger and his
 Stryker had been hit with a car bomb a week prior. The three
 men looked suspicious to Kurilla, whose legendary sense about
 people is so keen that his soldiers call it the "Deuce Sixth-Sense."
 His read on people and situations is so uncanny it borders the
 bizarre.

<p>
That day, Kurilla sensed "wrong" and told his soldiers to check
 the three men. As the Stryker dropped its ramp, one of the terrorists
 pulled a pistol from under his shirt. Mark Bieger was overwatching
 from another Stryker and shot the man with the first two bullets,
 dropping him to his knees.

<p>
LT Flynn was first out of the Stryker, and both he and the airguard
 CPT Westphal, saw the pistol at the same time and also shot
 the man. The other suspects started running. But all Kurilla
 saw was LT Flynn stepping off the ramp, and then there was a
 lot of shooting. Kurilla yelled FLYNNNNNNNNNNN!!!! and was nearly
 diving to stop Flynn from shooting, thinking the new lieutenant
 had lost his mind and was shooting a man just for running from
 Coalition forces. Soldiers can't just shoot anyone who runs.

<p>
Chris Espindola also shot the man. Amazingly, despite being
 hit by four M4's from multiple directions, the man still lived
 a few minutes. Soldiers outran and tackled his two associates
 when they made a run.

<p>
During their interrogation on base, both admitted to being Jihadists.
 One was training to be a sniper, while the other was training
 for different combat missions. They also admitted that the terrorist
 who was shot down was their cell leader, who had been training
 them for three months. They were on a recon of American forces
 when Kurilla sensed their intent.

<p>
The cell leader had a blood-stained "death note" in his pocket
 stating he was a true Mujahadeen and wanted to die fighting
 the Americans. He got his wish; and now, Chris Espindola, Kurilla's
 radio man, was down in Baghdad testifying against the two surviving
 co-conspirators. Despite their sworn confessions, Kurilla was
 left with a young radio operator with little trigger-time.

<p>
Flynn had now been a platoon leader for six months, but today
 Kurilla had another 2nd lieutenant who was being mentored before
 he became a platoon leader. Our Stryker did not contain the
 normal fighters that I saw with LTC Kurilla, but we also had
 a section (two squads) of infantrymen in Strykers from Alpha
 Company. This section was led by SSG Konkol.

<p>
We were searching the area for the source of that automatic
 weapons fire when Kurilla spotted three men in a black Opel
 and his sixth sense kicked. When Kurilla keyed in on them, he
 pointed his rifle at the car and signaled them to get out. The
 driver tucked his head and gunned the gas. The chase was on.

<p>
Strykers are fast, but Opels are faster. We were roaring through
 little streets and along roads, horn blaring, cars zipping off
 the sides, the steady chatter of multiple radio channels colliding
 inside the Stryker. A Kiowa helicopter pilot radioed that he
 spotted the car. As the chase continued, the Kiowa pilot said,
 "It's going about 105 mph."

<p>How can the pilot know it's going 105 mph? I thought.

<p>This Kiowa shot the Opel

<p>
As if in reply, the pilot radioed that the Opel was outrunning
 his helicopter. Captain Jeff VanAntwerp came on the radio net
 saying he was moving his section into position to intercept
 the Opel.

<p>
"Watch out for that kid!" yelled Kurilla over the intercom to
 our driver as we made a hard turn, managing to avoid hitting
 the child.

<p>
Opels may be faster than Kiowas on straight-a-ways, but when
 the car made turns, the helicopter quickly caught up. Kurilla
 ordered the Kiowa to fire a warning shot, then quickly authorized
 the Kiowa to disable the vehicle.

<p>
Kiowas are small, carrying just two people; they fly so low
 the two flying soldiers are practically infantrymen. The pilot
 swooped low and the "co-pilot" aimed his rifle at the Opel,
 firing three shots and blowing out the back window. The Kiowa
 swooped and banked hard in front of the car, firing three more
 shots through the front hood, the universal sign for "stop."

<p>
The car chase ended, but the men fled on foot up an alley. We
 approached in the Strykers and I heard Kurilla say on the radio,
 "Shots fired!" as he ducked for a moment then popped back up
 in the hatch. Kurilla continued, "Trail section clear the car
 and clear south to north! I'm going to block the back door on
 the north side!"

<p>
About fifteen seconds later our ramp dropped. We ran into combat.

<p>
Folks who haven't done much urban fighting might take issue
 with the wild chases, and they might say that people should
 always "stack up" and do things this or that way, but men in
 Delta Force, SEALs and the like, all know that when chasing
 wild men into the labyrinth, soldiers enter the land of confusion.
 If soldiers don't go fast, the bad guys simply get away. Just
 a few minutes ago, these three guys were going "105 miles per
 hour," and outrunning a helicopter.

<p>
There were shops, alleys, doorways, windows.

<p>
The soldiers with LTC Kurilla were searching fast, weapons at
 the ready, and they quickly flex-cuffed two men. But these were
 not the right guys. Meanwhile, SSG Konkol's men were clearing
 toward us, leaving the three bad guys boxed, but free.

<p>
Shots were fired behind us but around a corner to the left.

<p>
Both the young 2nd lieutenant and the young specialist were
 inside a shop when a close-quarters firefight broke out, and
 they ran outside. Not knowing how many men they were fighting,
 they wanted backup. LTC Kurilla began running in the direction
 of the shooting. He passed by me and I chased, Kurilla leading
 the way.

<p>
There was a quick and heavy volume of fire. And then LTC Kurilla
 was shot.

<p>Last steps

<p>LTC Erik Kurilla (front right), the moment the bullets strike.(2nd
 LT front-left; radioman near-left; "AH" the interpreter is near-right.)

<p>Three bullets reach flesh: One snaps his thigh bone in half.

<p>Both legs and an arm are shot.

<p>The Commander rolls into a firing position, just as a bullet
 strikes the wall beside 2nd lieutenant's head (left).

<p>
Kurilla was running when he was shot, but he didn't seem to
 miss a stride; he did a crazy judo roll and came up shooting.

<p>BamBamBamBam! Bullets were hitting all around Kurilla. The young
 2nd lieutenant and specialist were the only two soldiers near.
 Neither had real combat experience. AH had no weapon. I had
 a camera.

<p>
Seconds count.

<p>
Kurilla, though down and unable to move, was fighting and firing,
 yelling at the two young soldiers to get in there; but they
 hesitated. BamBamBamBam!

<p>
Kurilla was in the open, but his judo roll had left him slightly
 to the side of the shop. I screamed to the young soldiers, "Throw
 a grenade in there!" but they were not attacking.

<p>"Throw a grenade in there!" They did not attack.

<p>"Give me a grenade!" They didn't have grenades.

<p>
"Erik! Do you need me to come get you!" I shouted. But he said
 "No." (Thank God; running in front of the shop might have proved
 fatal.)

<p>
"What's wrong with you!?" I yelled above the shooting.

<p>
"I'm hit three times! I'm shot three times!"

<p>
Amazingly, he was right. One bullet smashed through his femur,
 snapping his leg. His other leg was hit and so was an arm.

<p>
With his leg mangled, Kurilla pointed and fired his rifle into
 the doorway, yelling instructions to the soldiers about how
 to get in there. But they were not attacking. This was not the
 Deuce Four I know. The other Deuce Four soldiers would have
 killed every man in that room in about five seconds. But these
 two soldiers didn't have the combat experience to grasp the
 power of momentum.

<p>
This was happening in seconds. Several times I nearly ran over
 to Kurilla, but hesitated every time. Kurilla was, after all,
 still fighting. And I was afraid to run in front of the shop,
 especially so unarmed.

<p>The Commander fights...

<p>...and fights, as more bullets kick up dust.

<p>
And then help arrived in the form of one man: CSM Prosser.

<p>
Prosser ran around the corner, passed the two young soldiers
 who were crouched low, then by me and right to the shop, where
 he started firing at men inside.

<p>
A man came forward, trying to shoot Kurilla with a pistol, apparently
 realizing his only escape was by fighting his way out, or dying
 in the process. Kurilla was aiming at the doorway waiting for
 him to come out. Had Prosser not come at that precise moment,
 who knows what the outcome might have been.

<p>
Prosser shot the man at least four times with his M4 rifle.
 But the American M4 rifles are weak - after Prosser landed three
 nearly point blank shots in the man's abdomen, splattering a
 testicle with a fourth, the man just staggered back, regrouped
 and tried to shoot Prosser.

<p>CSM Robert Prosser goes "black."

<p>
Then Prosser's M4 went "black" (no more bullets). A shooter
 inside was also having problems with his pistol, but there was
 no time to reload. Prosser threw down his empty M4, ran into
 the shop and tackled the man.

<p>
Though I have the photo, I do not remember the moment that Prosser
 went "black" and ran into the shop. Apparently I turned my head,
 but kept my finger on the shutter button. When I looked back
 again, I saw the very bloody leg of CSM Prosser inside the shop.
 It was not moving. He appeared to be shot down and dead.

<p>
I looked back at the two soldiers who were with me outside,
 and screamed what amounted to "Attack Attack Attack!" I stood
 up and was yelling at them. Actually, what I shouted was an
 unprintable string of curses, while Kurilla was also yelling
 at them to get in there, his M4 trained on the entrance. But
 the guys were not attacking.

<p>
I saw Prosser's M4 on the ground, Where did that come from?

<p>
I picked up Prosser's M4. It was empty. I saw only Prosser's
 bloody leg lying still, just inside the darkened doorway, because
 most of his body was hidden behind a stack of sheet metal.

<p>
"Give me some ammo! Give me a magazine!" I yelled, and the young
 2nd lieutenant handed over a full 30-round magazine. I jacked
 it in, released the bolt and hit the forward assist. I had only
 one magazine, so checked that the selector was on semi-automatic.

<p>
I ran back to the corner of the shop and looked at LTC Kurilla
 who was bleeding, and saw CSM Prosser's extremely bloody leg
 inside the shop, the rest of him was still obscured from view.
 I was going to run into the shop and shoot every man with a
 gun. And I was scared to death.

<p>
What I didn't realize was at that same moment four soldiers
 from Alpha Company 2nd Platoon were arriving on scene, just
 in time to see me about to go into the store. SSG Gregory Konkol,
 SGT Jim Lewis, and specialists Nicholas Devereaux and Christopher
 Muse where right there, behind me, but I didn't see them.

<p>
Reaching around the corner, I fired three shots into the shop.
 The third bullet pierced a propane canister, which jumped up
 in the air and began spinning violently. It came straight at
 my head but somehow missed, flying out of the shop as a high-pressure
 jet of propane hit me in the face. The goggles saved my eyes.
 I gulped in deeply.

<p>
In the tiniest fraction of a second, somehow my mind actually
 registered Propane . . . FIREBALL! as it bounced on the ground
 where it spun furiously, creating an explosive cloud of gas
 and dust, just waiting for someone to fire a weapon.

<p>
I scrambled back, got up and ran a few yards, afraid that Kurilla
 was going to burn up if there was a fire. The soldiers from
 Alpha Company were heading toward him when LTC Kurilla yelled
 out that he was okay, but that CSM Prosser was still in the
 shop. The Alpha Company soldiers ran through the propane and
 dust cloud and swarmed the shop.

<p>
When the bullet hit that canister, Prosser—who I thought might
 be dead because of all the blood on his leg—was actually fighting
 hand-to-hand on the ground. Wrapped in a ground fight, Prosser
 could not pull out his service pistol strapped on his right
 leg, or get to his knife on his left, because the terrorist—who
 turned out to be a serious terrorist—had grabbed Prosser's
 helmet and pulled it over his eyes and twisted it.

<p>
Prosser had beaten the terrorist in the head three times with
 his fist and was gripping his throat, choking him. But Prosser's
 gloves were slippery with blood so he couldn't hold on well.
 At the same time, the terrorist was trying to bite Prosser's
 wrist, but instead he bit onto the face of Prosser's watch.
 (Prosser wears his watch with the face turned inward.) The terrorist
 had a mouthful of watch but he somehow also managed to punch
 Prosser in the face. When I shot the propane canister, Prosser
 had nearly strangled the guy, but my shots made Prosser think
 bad guys were coming, so he released the terrorist's throat
 and snatched out the pistol from his holster, just as SSG Konkol,
 Lewis, Devereaux and Muse swarmed the shop. But the shots and
 the propane fiasco also had brought the terrorist back to life,
 so Prosser quickly reholstered his pistol and subdued him by
 smashing his face into the concrete.

<p>
The combat drama was ended, so I started snapping photos again.

<p>CSM Prosser, his leg drenched in the terrorist's blood, as 2nd
 Platoon Alpha Company arrives

<p>CSM Prosser drags the terrorist into the alley ...

<p>...into the light.

<p>The propane canister at rest (left), the terrorist in view of
 the Commander

<p>CSM Prosser flex cuffs Khalid Jasim Nohe

<p>Prosser stands above the crocodile who bit his watch.

<p>SFC Bowman shields the eyes of his Commander.

<p>
When Recon platoon showed up about a minute later, SFC Bowman
 asked LTC Kurilla to lie down. But Kurilla was ordering people
 to put out security, and directing action this way and that.
 When the very experienced medic, Specialist Munoz, put morphine
 into Kurilla, the commander still kept giving orders, even telling
 Munoz how to do his job. So SFC Bowman told Munoz to give Kurilla
 another morphine, and finally Kurilla settled down, and stopped
 giving orders long enough for them to haul him and the terrorist
 away to the Combat Support Hospital. The same facility where
 Daniel Lama was recovering from the earlier gunshot wound to
 the neck.

<p>Combat Support Hospital
The Surge operation continued as we returned
 to base. The Commander and the terrorist were both being prepped
 for surgery, when LTC Kurilla said, "Tell Major Bieger to call
 my wife so she doesn't get a call from the Army first." But
 someone gave the Commander a cell phone, and I heard Kurilla
 talking to his wife, Mary Paige, saying something like, "Honey,
 there has been a little shooting here. I got hit and there was
 some minor soft tissue damage." The X-ray on the board nearby
 showed his femur snapped in half. "I'll be fine. Just some minor
 stuff." That poor woman.

<p>
The doctors rolled LTC Kurilla and the terrorist into OR and
 our surgeons operated on both at the same time. The terrorist
 turned out to be one Khalid Jasim Nohe, who had first been captured
 by US forces (2-8 FA) on 21 December, the same day a large bomb
 exploded in the dining facility on this base and killed 22 people.

<p>
That December day, Khalid Jasim Nohe and two compatriots tried
 to evade US soldiers from 2-8 FA, but the soldiers managed to
 stop the fleeing car. Then one of the suspects tried to wrestle
 a weapon from a soldier before all three were detained. They
 were armed with a sniper rifle, an AK, pistols, a silencer,
 explosives and other weapons, and had in their possession photographs
 of US bases, including a map of this base.

<p>
That was in December.

<p>
About two weeks ago, word came that Nohe's case had been dismissed
 by a judge on 7 August. The Coalition was livid. According to
 American officers, solid cases are continually dismissed without
 apparent cause. Whatever the reason, the result was that less
 than two weeks after his release from Abu Ghraib, Nohe was back
 in Mosul shooting at American soldiers.

<p>
LTC Kurilla repeatedly told me of - and I repeatedly wrote about
 - terrorists who get released only to cause more trouble. Kurilla
 talked about it almost daily. Apparently, the vigor of his protests
 had made him an opponent of some in the Army's Detention Facilities
 chain of command, but had otherwise not changed the policy.
 And now Kurilla lay shot and in surgery in the same operating
 room with one of the catch-and-release-terrorists he and other
 soldiers had been warning everyone about.

<p>
When Kurilla woke in recovery a few hours after surgery, he
 called CSM Prosser and asked for a Bible and the book: Gates
 of Fire. Kurilla gives a copy of Gates of Fire to every new
 officer and orders them to read it. He had given me a copy and
 told me to read it. In my book, there is a marked passage, which
 I thought rather flowery. But I have it beside me on the table
 by the map of Iraq. 

<p>"I would be the one. The one to go back and speak. A pain beyond
 all previous now seized me. Sweet life itself, even the desperately
 sought chance to tell the tale, suddenly seemed unendurable
 alongside the pain of having to take leave of these whom I had
 come so to love."

<p>A short time after Kurilla gave me the book, following the death
 of one of his soldiers, he said to me, "I want you to write
 about my men. You are the only one who might understand," the
 passage registered in my mind.

<p>
I asked CSM Prosser if I could go with him to see the Commander.
 Carrying both books, we drove to the Cash. Major Mark Bieger
 arrived alongside Kurilla's hospital bed, paying respect. After
 spending some time with the Commander, CSM Prosser and I drove
 back to the unit.

<p>The Deuce Four

<p>
The truest test of leadership happens when the Commander is
 no longer there. Kurilla's men were taking down and boxing up
 his photos of his wife and children, and his Minnesota Vikings
 flag, when they decided to keep the flag so everyone could autograph
 it. It wasn't long before there was no room left to sign, but
 I found a place to scratch. I wanted my name on that flag.

<p>
The place suddenly felt hollowed-out.

<p>
When I came back into the TOC, Major Michael Lawrence - who
 I often challenge to pull-up contests, and who so far has beat
 me (barely) every time - looked me square and professionally,
 in the direct way of a military leader and asked, "Mike, did
 you pick up a weapon today?"
"I did."
"Did you fire that weapon?"
"I
 did."
"If you pick up another weapon, you are out of here the
 next day. Understood?"
"Understand."
"We still have to discuss
 what happened today."

<p>
Writers are not permitted to fight. I asked SFC Bowman to look
 at the photos and hear what happened. Erik Kurilla and CSM Prosser
 were witness, but I did not want the men of Deuce Four who were
 not there to think I had picked up a weapon without just cause.
 I approached SFC Bowman specifically, because he is fair, and
 is respected by the officers and men. Bowman would listen with
 an open mind. While looking at the photos, Bowman said, "Mike,
 it's simple. Were you in fear for your life or the lives of
 others?"

<p>
"Thank you Sergeant Bowman," I said.

<p>
I walked back to the TOC and on the way, Chaplain Wilson said,
 "Hello Michael. Are you feeling all right?"

<p>
"Yes Chaplain Wilson!" Why does he always ask that? Do I look
 stressed? But suddenly, I felt much better. Chaplain Wilson
 might be the only man in the universe with a chance of getting
 me into the chapel of my own free will, but I have resisted
 so far.

<p>
Only a few hours had passed since Daniel Lama and the Commander
 were shot. It was around 9 PM when I heard Captain Matt McGrew
 was going to see Kurilla. I asked to come along. We entered
 the hospital, and saw that Erik Kurilla's bed was beside Daniel
 Lama's. Kurilla went from asleep to wide awake in about a quarter-second,
 said "hello" and asked us to sit down. After some conversation,
 the Commander looked over at the next bed and asked, "How are
 you doing SGT Lama?"

<p>
"Great, sir."

<p>
"Good," the Commander said, "You are my new PSD." [Personal
 Security Detachment: Bodyguard.]

<p>
Daniel Lama smiled, got out of bed and I shot a photo of him
 reporting for his "new duty."

<p>Sgt Daniel Lama: less than one hour from flying out of Mosul

<p>
It was near 10 PM when the airplane that would start their journey
 back to America landed outside, its engines rumbling the hospital
 floor. The terrorist who shot Kurilla, and who was now a eunuch
 in a nearby bed, might well have been the same terrorist who,
 after being released, shot Lama and Thompson and others. Kurilla
 could see Khalid Jasim Nohe, but made no comment.

<p>
As Captain McGrew and I drove through the dusty darkness back
 to the Deuce Four, the Commander and SGT Lama, along with other
 wounded and dead soldiers from around Iraq, began their journey
 home.

<p>
The next day, Iraqi Army and Police commanders were in a fury
 that LTC Kurilla had been shot. Some blamed his men, while others
 blamed the terrorists, although blame alone could not compete
 with disbelief. Kurilla had gone on missions every single day
 for almost a year. Talking with people downtown. Interfacing
 with shop owners. Conferencing with doctors. Drinking tea with
 Iraqi citizens in their homes. Meeting proud mothers with new
 babies. It's important to interact and take the pulse of a city
 in a war where there is no "behind the lines," no safe areas.
 It's even dangerous on the bases here.

<p>
In order for leaders of Kurilla's rank to know the pulse of
 the Iraqi people, they must make direct contact. There's a risk
 in that. But it's men like Kurilla who can make this work. Even
 and especially in places like Mosul, where it takes a special
 penchant for fighting. A passion for the cause of freedom. A
 true and abiding understanding of both its value and its costs.
 An unwavering conviction that, in the end, we will win.

<p>
Make no mistake about Kurilla - he's a warrior, always at the
 front of the charge. But it's that battle-hardened bravery that
 makes him the kind of leader that Americans admire and Iraqis
 respect. Like the soldiers of Deuce Four, Iraqis have seen too
 much war to believe in fairy tales. They know true warriors
 bleed.

<p>
Iraqi Army and Police officers see many Americans as too soft,
 especially when it comes to dealing with terrorists. The Iraqis
 who seethe over the shooting of Kurilla know that the cunning
 fury of Jihadists is congenite. Three months of air-conditioned
 reflection will not transform terrorists into citizens.

<p>
Over lunch with Chaplain Wilson and our two battalion surgeons,
 Major Brown and Captain Warr, there was much discussion about
 the "ethics" of war, and contention about why we afford top-notch
 medical treatment to terrorists. The treatment terrorists get
 here is better and more expensive than what many Americans or
 Europeans can get.

<p>
"That's the difference between the terrorists and us," Chaplain
 Wilson kept saying. "Don't you understand? That's the difference."


