
URL: http://nationalcatholicreporter.org/peace/pfg111404.htm
<p>By special arrangement, The National Catholic Reporter Publishing
 Company is able to make available Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton's
 weekly Sunday homilies given at Saint Leo Church, Detroit, MI.
  Each homily is transcribed from a tape recording of the actual
 delivery and made available to you as an NCR Web site exclusive.
  You may register for a weekly e-mail reminder that will be
 sent to you when each new homily is posted. From time to time,
 Bishop Gumbleton is traveling and unable to provide us with
 the homily for the week. NOTE: The homilies are available here
 five days after they are given, always on Friday. 

<p>This week's readings **Malachi 3:19-20aFor look, the Day is coming,
 glowing like a furnace. All the proud and all the evil-doers
 will be the stubble, and the Day, when it comes, will set them
 ablaze, says Yahweh Sabaoth, leaving them neither root nor branch.
 But for you who fear my name, the Sun of justice will rise with
 healing in his rays, and you will come out leaping like calves
 from the stall

<p>2 Thessalonians 3:7-12For you yourselves know how you ought to
 follow our example, because we did not act in an undisciplined
 manner among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying
 for it, but with labor and hardship we kept working night and
 day so that we would not be a burden to any of you; not because
 we do not have the right to this, but in order to offer ourselves
 as a model for you, so that you would follow our example. For
 even when we were with you, we used to give you this order:
 if anyone is not willing to work, then he is not to eat, either.
 For we hear that some among you are leading an undisciplined
 life, doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies. Now
 such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ
 to work in quiet fashion and eat their own bread.

<p>Luke 21:5-19And while some were talking about the temple, that
 it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive gifts, He said,
 "As for these things which you are looking at, the days will
 come in which there will not be left one stone upon another
 which will not be torn down." They questioned Him, saying, "Teacher,
 when therefore will these things happen? And what will be the
 sign when these things are about to take place?" And He said,
 "See to it that you are not misled; for many will come in My
 name, saying, 'I am He,' and, 'The time is near.' Do not go
 after them. When you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be
 terrified; for these things must take place first, but the end
 does not follow immediately." Then He continued by saying to
 them, "Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom,
 and there will be great earthquakes, and in various places plagues
 and famines; and there will be terrors and great signs from
 heaven. But before all these things, they will lay their hands
 on you and will persecute you, delivering you to the synagogues
 and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for My
 name's sake. It will lead to an opportunity for your testimony.
 So make up your minds not to prepare beforehand to defend yourselves;
 for I will give you utterance and wisdom which none of your
 opponents will be able to resist or refute. But you will be
 betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends,
 and they will put some of you to death, and you will be hated
 by all because of My name. Yet not a hair of your head will
 perish. By your endurance you will gain your lives."

<p>* A longtime national and international activist in the peace
 movement, Bishop Gumbleton is a founding member of Pax Christi
 USA and an outspoken critic of the sanctions against Iraq.He
 has appeared on numerous radio and television programs, and
 has published numerous articles and reports.

<p>* Scripture texts in this work are in modified form from the
 American Standard Version of the Bible and are available as
 part of the public domain.

<p>** The Web link to Pax Christi is provided as a service to our
 readers.

<p>As we approach the end of the church year and also the end of
 the calendar year, the scriptures suggest that we turn our thoughts
 to the end of the world, the end of time, and to the return
 of Jesus. But we must listen very deeply to the scriptures today,
 because they really are not about an eminent end of time that
 we should fear. That may be our first impression, but here is
 what is happening: 

<p>At the beginning of his public life Jesus had said, "The reign
 of God is at hand." The reign of God is at hand! It's ready
 to happen! He meant that the world will be transformed into
 a world where there will be justice and peace and love and joy,
 fullness of life for everybody! The reign of God is here! It's
 at hand! That is what he said. 

<p>Dear Reader of The Peace Pulpit,

<p>We need your help. We are pleased to make available -- at no
 charge -- The Peace Pulpit. But we cannot do all we need to
 do without your financial assistance. 

<p>Please take a moment to consider contributing to our annual appeal
 and join the ranks of readers who give to the Friends of NCR
 campaign. National Catholic Reporter is a nonprofit organization.
 Contributions are tax-deductible in the United States.

<p>P.S. Everyone who donates will receive the fourth in a series
 of specially designed NCR Christmas ornaments connecting us
 in a special way to the gospel of peace on earth. Thank you.

<p> Those first disciples were caught by that message. You can imagine.
 All of us would be. Then they began to see the signs. John points
 out one sign in the second chapter of his Gospel where Jesus
 changes the water into wine at the wedding feast at Canaan in
 Galilee. He said this was the first of the signs. The disciples
 were caught up in this excitement. "It's happening!" they thought.
 

<p>Also Jesus went around curing and healing, forgiving sin, and
 reaching out to the oppressed, the marginalized and the rejected.
 He was drawing people to himself with great love. The reign
 of God seemed to be breaking forth. The disciples saw those
 signs. 

<p>Then, of course, they experienced Jesus being put to death. Even
 though Jesus said the reign of God was at hand and they saw
 him as the anointed, the Messiah, they didn't quite understand
 what he was saying about himself. Even after the crucifixion
 and the resurrection, they were still saying to Jesus, "Well
 is it now that the Kingdom will be restored to Israel? Is David's
 kingdom going to be made whole and strong again and will lead
 the whole world?" 

<p>They were thinking in terms of an earthly kingdom, an earthly
 power, and they thought that was going to happen right away.
 But of course it didn't, and when this gospel is written --
 it was already in the late 70s or the early 80s -- Jesus had
 not yet returned. They were beginning to understand that maybe
 it is going to be a long time. 

<p>When Luke composed the gospel lesson that we heard today, he
 did it with this in mind. He had to reassure people because
 some pretty terrible things were happening. See by that time,
 the Temple in Jerusalem had already been destroyed. There was
 not a stone left upon a stone, and they were under the harsh
 occupying power of Rome. People were being persecuted. By this
 time, Peter had already been executed. Paul was gone. James,
 the first bishop of Jerusalem, had been put to death and the
 people had to flee. So the church was undergoing terrible persecution
 and suffering, and it looked like disaster was all around. 

<p>That is why Luke composed the gospel as he did. He suggested
 that Jesus foresaw all of this, because Luke wanted us to understand
 that God is really the God of all history and God is in control.
 God is guiding history. Luke shows Jesus saying all of this
 would happen so that we will understand that God is behind this,
 guiding it. God is not causing the evil, the persecution, the
 hatred, the wars and the earthquakes, but God is still there
 while all of this goes on. Luke was trying to reassure the community
 as they faced these persecutions and encourage them. 

<p>"Look, this is the opportunity for you to bear witness," is his
 message. "Be people who show by your faith that you know who
 Jesus is and that yes he will return at some point and the reign
 of God will happen in its fullness. Not now, but it will!" 

<p>Luke reassured them, "Do not worry about what you are going to
 say when you are brought into court. You are being persecuted
 because you are trying to live out the way of Jesus and people
 reject you. Don't worry God will be with you. Jesus says, 'I
 will give you words and wisdom that none of your opponents will
 be able to understand. Or be able to withstand or contradict.'
 " 

<p>Luke continued: "Even if your own parents, brothers, sisters,
 relatives and friends turn against you and want to put you to
 death, even then don't worry. God is with you. Jesus is present.
 Ultimately, not a hair on your head will perish, and through
 your perseverance you will possess your own selves. You will
 be cool and confident and able to go on as a disciple of Jesus."
 

<p>Now, this is a very important lesson, I think, for us right at
 this time in history. 

<p>Obviously it was a very important lesson for those first Christians
 in the community at Jerusalem and in the surrounding communities
 back in the first century. But it is also important for us,
 because we live in a time when we're very much aware of wars,
 famine, earthquakes and disasters of all kinds. Our world in
 many ways seems to be breaking apart. There are tensions among
 people of different ethnic groups. Look at what's happening
 in the Middle East and the Holy Land. There is a slight chance
 now that peace could come. But just a slight chance. There's
 so much violence and hatred between Israelis and Palestinians.
 There are wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Wars and ethnic cleansing
 in Africa. It's a terrible time in many ways. In fact, a couple
 of years ago on the World Day of Peace -- Jan. 1, 2002 -- Pope
 John Paul II wrote: 

<p>What is the hope which sustains the church at the beginning of
 2002 when we live in a world in which the power of evil seems
 to have once again taken the upper hand? How will this world,
 in fact, be transformed into a world in which the noblest of
 aspirations of the human heart will triumph? A world in which
 true peace will prevail? We're still struggling for that. We
 still want that so desperately and yet we live in a world in
 which the power of evil seems again to have taken the upper
 hand. The moral order is shattered. So we need to hear Jesus
 say, "I'm still with you. My spirit will guide you." And, perhaps,
 what we need to do is remember and be challenged by and respond
 to what Jesus said immediately after he had told those first
 disciples: "the reign of God is at hand." But he also told them
 then, "Change your lives! Change your lives!" That is how the
 reign of God will happen. We must act differently. We must act
 according to the way of Jesus. He brought us a whole different
 way in which to confront this world in which the power of evil
 seems to have the upper hand. But we still don't seem to have
 heard his message or we don't seem to want to follow it."

<p>In that same Peace Day statement Pope John Paul goes on to suggest
 to us how we ought to change our lives so that the reign of
 God will break forth and that the world in which the power of
 evil seems to have the upper hand can be transformed into a
 world in which peace will prevail. What he suggests is very
 difficult, and we seem to resist. 

<p>He tells us: "Recent events including the terrible killings"
 -- he was speaking about September 11, 2001 -- "move me to return
 to a theme which often stirs in the depth of my heart when I
 remember the events of history which mark my life, especially
 my youth." He is remembering back to when he was a teenager
 in the 1940s and his nation was invaded by the Nazi army and
 occupied harshly for five years. Following that, the nation
 had to endure Communist totalitarianism. 

<p>He continues, "The enormous sufferings of peoples and individuals,
 even among my own friends, caused by Nazi and Communist totalitarianism
 has never been far from my thoughts and prayers." 

<p>Then he says, "I've often paused to reflect on the persistent
 question" -- the question we ask ourselves today -- "How do
 we restore the moral and social order subjected to such horrific
 violence?" How do we make the world whole when it is shattered
 by violence and hatred and war?" 

<p>After reflecting on these questions, he turns to the word of
 God. From this he concludes: "The shattered order cannot be
 fully restored except by a response that combines justice with
 forgiveness. The two pillars upon which true peace will be built
 are justice and that special form of love we call forgiveness."
 

<p>If we're going to restore the shattered moral order we will only
 do it by building peace on two pillars; justice and that special
 form of love we call forgiveness, which means "enemy love,"
 where you love the one who hurt you and return good for evil.
 

<p>Now that isn't the way we've been going. That is not how we have
 reacted. 

<p>Consider this: what if before September 11 happened, when our
 leaders knew that something was in the offing, as they did,
 what if instead of just preparing to retaliate we had asked
 ourselves and our leaders had asked themselves: Why are people
 upset? Why would people plot to destroy us? Maybe there is injustice
 in the world that we have to try to remedy. 

<p>We could have reached out to the people who oppose us and tried
 to listen and understand the suffering of people to discover
 why and how. We could have reached out in the hopes of building
 justice. 

<p>Even though we did not do that before, when it did happen, we
 should have asked ourselves why it happened. Then we could have
 moved ourselves to forgiveness, that special form of love which
 marked the life of Jesus, which he intended to mark the lives
 of his followers. 

<p>Love your enemy. We don't do that. Instead we continue to wage
 war. 

<p>We somehow think that violence is going to end violence, but
 it won't! 

<p>How many times have we heard that, that violence only leads to
 more violence, yet deep down, how many times have we rejected
 that? People will say, "Well you know it won't work!" 

<p>I am sure people said that to Pope Leo when armies where ready
 to invade Rome. A lot of people said, "It won't work. Why bother
 going out there. You need an army to confront Attila and the
 army he has with him." Despite that, Pope Leo went, listened,
 and spoke; he negotiated and Rome was not destroyed. War was
 avoided. 

<p>In the 13th century, don't you suppose a lot of people said to
 Francis of Assisi, "You're crazy," when he said, "Instead of
 waging war against the Muslims we have to go and speak with
 them." He went by himself. He was able to go right into the
 enemy camp, speak with the Sultan and discover that yes, he
 wanted to make peace. But the crusaders refused. It could have
 happened, according to the way of Jesus. 

<p>In modern times, people probably told Nelson Mandela he was crazy
 because he said he could negotiate with the white oppressors
 in South Africa. When he came out of prison after "those long
 and lonely years," as he called his imprisonment, he understood
 he had to work for the freedom of the oppressors as much as
 the freedom of the oppressed. And he did it. He followed the
 way of Jesus. You reach out. You try to understand. You work
 for justice. You forgive your enemy. That is how we will build
 peace in our world. 

<p>Today, then, as we listen to these scripture lessons, they could
 be very frightening, because they talk about such terrible things
 that can happen, have happened and will happen. But we can be
 reassured once more that God is within human history in Jesus
 who came into our midst. God is with us at every moment in Jesus
 who lives within us and in our midst. We can be reassured if
 we listen to Jesus, not only hear him say, "The reign of God
 is at hand", but also hear him say, "Change your lives and begin
 to act differently." 

<p>Jesus asks us to begin to work in every way we can to build true
 peace in our world, to restore the shattered the moral order
 by building it on the two pillars: justice and that special
 form of love we call forgiveness. 

<p>That is how the reign of God will break forth in its fullness.
 Each of us has to be changed, in our everyday activities and
 in our interactions with one another. Then we as a people, as
 a nation, we must begin to change the way we confront the shattered
 moral order. We must bring into our public policy this conviction
 that we will only make true peace on the pillars of justice
 and love. 

<p>In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
 Amen. 


