
URL: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/talking_point/4218536.stm
<p> Search and rescue teams in New Orleans say thousands of survivors
 of Hurricane Katrina still haven't left their homes. 

<p> The city's Police Chief Eddie Compass told reporters that a
 "sensitive" approach would be used to remove people. 

<p> As many as 10,000 people had refused to leave the flooded city
 despite the mayor's compulsory evacuation order. 

<p> President George W Bush has declared Friday 16 September a national
 day of prayer and remembrance for the victims. 

<p>How has Katrina changed the US? Has it altered your life? Has
 the disaster affected the way other countries view the US? 

<p>This debate is now closed. Please read a selection of your comments
 below

<p>The following comments reflect the balance of views received:
 

<p>We can see how fraudsters were ready and waiting for this disaster

<p>
Richard, Deal, UK

<p> I am wondering how the sight of armed gangs taking advantage
 of such a terrible situation, might change the views held by
 Americans concerning their very lax gun laws. We can see how
 fraudsters were ready and waiting for this disaster, having
 seen an opportunity following the tsunami. What will organized
 crime have prepared for the next?Richard, Deal, UK

<p> The US government's lack of immediate action and disregard of
 its own poor and disadvantaged people should be a signal to
 the rest of the world. If the Bush administration will not take
 care of our own citizens, what sincere chances are there that
 the world's poor and disadvantaged will be taken care of by
 the USA?Cortney, Columbus, USA

<p> To say that the fault for this disaster lies at the feet of
 local officials is disingenuous. For twenty five years the right
 wing of this country has been cutting taxes and cutting services,
 leaving the cities and states to take up the slack, which is
 nearly impossible. Bush and his administration simply can't
 admit that they were wrong to cut the funding for the US Army
 Corp of Engineers levee maintenance program.Tim Casey, Boston,
 USA

<p> I'm here on holiday (on the West coast of USA), and I can safely
 say I don't think its changed things in the slightest. Yes,
 it's all over the news, but it took a while before people started
 to notice, and generally life goes on as normal. The people
 we have met are more concerned with how London has recovered
 after the recent bombings. Terrorism, it seems matters more
 than natural, but preventable disasters.Jane Leahy, London,
 UK

<p>The government might have failed but the people of America didn't

<p>
John, Detroit, USA

<p> The government might have failed but the people of America didn't.
 We are as proud of our country as anyone in the world is. Our
 government is not what (we the people) want it to be. You can
 bet your life it has changed the way we look at our government
 and the way it does business for itself and not for the welfare
 of its people.John, Detroit, USA

<p> It's alright saying Bush was slow to respond to help in New
 Orleans, but can you imagine us in England doing any better?
 No. David Parrott , Derby, England

<p> It took the EU 24 hours to get supplies to New Orleans once
 Bush had formally requested it. How come it took a week for
 him to request outside help? And more importantly how could
 they respond in 24 hours while it took a week for US teams to
 get to work? DW, Chicago, USA 

<p> Bush leading the inquiry, that's going to be a fair and balanced
 exercise then.Dave Thawley, Blackpool

<p> In the USA it is widely believed that everything here is better
 than anywhere else, and there is little the rest of the world
 has to say of any relevance. At a dreadful price, Katrina has
 brought some humility and perhaps some soul-searching about
 embracing sustainable energy policies.Nic Oatridge, New York,
 USA

<p>Not even tragedy can beget sympathy when it comes to America

<p>
Amy Watts, Austin, TX USA

<p> Would it really matter if the US changed? From the ignorant
 comments posted here, it's obvious that we're damned no matter
 what course we take. Not even tragedy can beget sympathy when
 it comes to America. But at least our suffering has allowed
 the rest of the world to feel better about itself.Amy Watts,
 Austin, TX USA

<p> Mistakes were made. What's done is done. No matter how much
 griping we do we can't change what happened. The question is,
 what are we doing now? Are we part of the problem or part of
 the solution? The question I ask myself and I feel every human
 alive today should ask. What can I do to help? Am I a part of
 the problem or the solution? Scott Moody, Tupelo, USA

<p> I think that the US has not changed but I am not saying that
 in a bad way. We are very concerned and worried about the people
 in the areas hit and worried about the economy being able to
 take all the pressures that this disaster unleashed.Dana, United
 States

<p> The devastation caused by Katrina has wrought havoc on the USA
 that may well ask some searching questions of America's economic
 and political situation for a long time. But that is not to
 say that Europe and Britain would be any better placed to handle
 a similar catastrophe. And to even think of suggesting that
 the rest of the world has no compassion for America right now
 is outright foolishness. People in the UK and I'm sure elsewhere
 are horrified at the extent of the damage and loss, and our
 sympathies are with those affected and America as a whole.Rich,
 Liverpool, England

<p> Katrina's impact on our economy is not fully visible yet. We
 will learn in the near future that gasoline must remain at a
 price that allows our citizens to commute to work on a day to
 day basis. Unlike Europe the geographical setup of our communities
 is so spread out that walking to work is impossible. Public
 transport is also impractical in a country this vast unless
 you live in one of the megalopolis's. If gas remains this high
 small business is doomed and look for vast numbers of people
 to move into urban areas.Zac Murray, Ada, OK

<p> Certainly the initial efforts to aid the victims of this disaster
 were poor. I am certain that the ball was dropped everywhere
 from the local governments to the top of our government. I have
 been very heartened by the people of Houston. For example our
 church organized the inter faith council of Houston to provide
 9 million dollars and the 20,000 volunteers necessary to feed
 these victims for the next 30 days. Here are Baptist working
 along side Muslims, etc to provide food essentials and spiritual
 support. Hal Doerr, Houston Texas

<p>It opened my eyes to how much compassion there is in this country
 for our neighbours

<p>
Suzanne, Dallas, TX, USA

<p> It opened my eyes to how much compassion there is in this country
 for our neighbours. I had always believed it, but now I know
 it. People immediately started giving goods, food, money and
 time to those in need. We want to help those who are suffering
 get back on their feet and know that it will take people helping
 people to accomplish this. What other countries think of us
 doesn't factor into what we know we must do.Suzanne, Dallas,
 TX, USA

<p> Anyone who has been to the South knows that race is a major,
 persistent issue. Anyone who thinks that Katrina has changed
 this is just ignorant. The US has never pretended that race
 and poverty have gone away as issues, the rest of the world
 just never cared to notice until it was thrust onto their TV
 screens. The history of the US (indeed its original creation)
 was based on friction between different levels of government.
 If Katrina changes anything then hopefully it will be the stubborn
 pride of officials that hamstrings US bureaucracy.Neil, London

<p> I live in the state that suffered the most damage and I find
 it amusing how people from different parts of the world explain
 the problems and situations we face like they know what they're
 talking about. Everyone says that this storm has brought about
 so much racial divide and how it's all Bush's fault. Stop blaming
 Bush for everything that ever happens in the whole world. It's
 the responsibility of the local government to take care of evacuations
 and damage control. People need to stop making everything political
 because they've lost sight of what's actually real.Tyler, Jackson,
 Mississippi, US

<p> What is this gross misconception of America? People are helping
 from all over the country. Individuals, small businesses (mine
 just sent a semi load of 6000 clothing items). We are helping
 our own. The blame, if any, lies with the mayor and governor
 or LA whose job it is to handle such an expected disaster. They
 are the problem, not the Americans who are driving night and
 day to help, sending money and needed products. We are America,
 we will come through in flying colours.Brigit, Chicago, USA

<p>It is time to focus on how to create a modern welfare state

<p>
Moez Dharani, New York, USA

<p> The resilience of the American people and the will to overcome
 total devastation is evident from the efforts of so many people.
 What needs to change is the general population's perception
 that somehow everything will be OK. Things will only improve
 if we in America understand that it is our duty at all times
 to think about the welfare of all our people at all times not
 just when a hurricane or earthquake hits one of our cities.
 It is time to focus on how to create a modern welfare state
 that puts the needs of all Americans at high priority. Moez
 Dharani, New York, USA

<p> The Mayor of NO has no authority to order forced evacuation
 without a court order. He cannot order a person that is not
 a public threat to vacate their own home. He cannot get a court
 order to do without showing that the person is a public threat.
 Even the governor and the President can't without the President
 suspending habeas corpus and that has only occurred once in
 our history and that was by Lincoln during the Civil War.Joe
 W, Westlake, Oh, USA

<p> Given the opportunity, some people will exploit any situation
 for personal gain. What you saw in New Orleans was exactly this.
 This is not the federal government's responsibility. They certainly
 expected people to be civil for four days while rescuing thousands
 of people across three states. Given the scope of the disaster,
 the blame can only fall on the Mayor of New Orleans and the
 Governor of Louisiana for poor planning and incompetent leadership.Ed,
 Tampa, Florida

<p> This is neither America's tsunami nor a "Third World." The tsunami
 came without a warning, Katrina came with scientific precision.
 In the tsunami areas, we saw people mend and help each other.
 In Katrina areas, specifically New Orleans, we saw looting,
 rapes, and other forms of lawlessness. What we saw was the stark
 differences in values between the Third World tsunami areas
 and the First World USA.Andrew, VA, USA

<p> The federal, state and local governments all failed. The event
 that resulted in this catastrophe was predictable. The city
 was not prepared to withstand anything greater than a category
 three hurricane. The political system allows money to be drained
 from vital infrastructure projects by short-sighted politicians.
 This is what has to change. This would have never happened in
 the Netherlands, which has, at least since 1953, planned for
 predictable weather events.David Ferrin, Banchory, UK

<p>As with every disaster that has hit our shores, it has only made
 us stronger

<p>
Charlotte, Dallas, USA

<p> How has Katrina changed the USA? As with every disaster that
 has hit our shores, it has only made us stronger. We reach out
 to our fellow Americans who are strangers to us and find the
 blessing of friendship and good will in the shadow of disaster
 and despair. We must all take a few minutes to be thankful for
 what we have and to take what we have and share it with those
 who have lost everything. During times such as Katrina, our
 states have no boundaries, we are all American and we all unite.
 Charlotte, Dallas, USA

<p> It seems bizarre to me that some US citizens would prefer to
 complain about other countries reactions to the disaster rather
 than their own governments. I heard the Chief of Police say
 that Vancouver's urban search and rescue team was the first
 emergency service on the scene. Annie Belcourt, Cortes Island,
 BC, Canada

<p> The immediate need is to extend all help and relief to the victims
 of this disaster. Let the entire world join together in this
 noble endeavour rather than engaging in meaningless fault-finding.VV
 Kurup, Kochi, India

<p> The US's political culture and structure makes it more difficult
 for the national government to handled domestic disasters. The
 reaction was slow in part because of the three levels of bureaucracy
 that had to be penetrated (federal, state, and local governments).
 Getting aid to tsunami victims in SE Asia is just a matter of
 the President saying "go" to the Feds. It is not George Bush's
 fault that the government was set up this way. That being said,
 there are good parts about having a defused government, too.Ian
 Smith, West Point, NY, USA

<p> America has the best and America has the worst society has to
 offer. Economic segregation is a fact of life in America, as
 it is in many other countries. Disasters like this just brings
 it out into the open again. it doesn't change my view of the
 U.S. but it does remind me that economic inequality urgently
 needs more attention.Victor D., Amsterdam, NL

<p> What it shows is that the US is no different from the rest of
 the world. The super power that it is still makes mistakes.
 Its people are just as vulnerable to natural disasters and political
 games as everywhere else. Race has nothing to do with it. New
 Orleans has a population of 80% African American it is not surprising
 that the only images you see are of African American people.
 I do not believe that the Bush administration is any more racist
 then the previous governments who have allowed poverty to exist
 in their country, regardless of colour. It's about time for
 everyone else to open their pockets. Tara , New Hampshire, USA

<p> All the excuses about federal, state and local government interactions
 and failures are just that - excuses. Face it - the system failed
 and the poorest paid the price. The tragic results were clear
 to see on every television screen in the country. If this changes
 anything, I hope it changes for the benefit of those innocents
 living in poverty, especially children. Katherine, London, UK

<p>What I see is the amazing strength of the US

<p>
Jim T, NY, USA

<p> I find it interesting at the joy other countries have at our
 tragedy. What I see is the amazing strength of the US. Within
 one week hundreds of thousands have been rescued, feed, clothed
 and housed. We are seeing water already being drained from a
 city devastated by flood. I'd like to see any other country
 do what we have in such a short amount of time. Jim T, NY, USA

<p> Everyone I speak to is doing something to help on a personal
 level. My husband is a High School Principal and so far they
 have sent 6 trucks of water, diapers, bleach and paper towels
 to Mississippi. This together with $10,000 raised in 2 days.
 I have cleared out my closet to send clothes to the Red Cross
 for hurricane families coming to live in Chicagoland. Pointing
 fingers of blame is a luxury right now.Joy Ferguson, USA

<p> The US has always risen to enormous challenges, and this time
 will be no different. There will be a continued outpouring from
 people in this country as never before, and lives will be rebuilt
 in time. We are an easy target for criticism from other nations,
 which "comes with the territory" as the lone superpower. We
 can take it. We're not a perfect country, but our strengths
 far outweigh our weaknesses. We'll all keep our heads down and
 work our way through this horrible crisis, and not look solely
 to the government for help. As private citizens we will roll
 up our sleeves and ask, "What can I do to help others? How can
 I make a difference?" This is always the way it has been in
 my country. Government does not have all the answers. Thanks
 for the prayers and support from around the globe. Shelley,
 Tucson, AZ, USA! 

<p> I doubt Hurricane Katrina will have any long-term national or
 global effect. What I think should happen is a rethinking of
 the entire disaster planning process. When was the last time
 any country in the world had to evacuate not only a city, but
 two states/provinces as well? I keep trying to figure out how
 you evacuate and take care of the people who inhabit an area
 the size of Great Britain without having any problems. People
 really need to check their expectations against reality before
 they complain.Gregg Otten, Alexandria, VA, USA

<p> Too early to say. I was in the southern US when it happened.
 Yes, the governmental agencies all went to pieces - where wouldn't
 they, so not so easy to heap nasties on them yet - but there
 were big failings. On the other hand, I witnessed an immediate
 rush by ordinary US citizens to collect money and help out,
 restaurants, etc offering free meals to holders of photo IDs
 etc. I have not lost my faith in the general goodness of the
 US citizen - I never had faith in government in a crisis - maybe
 this was the problem - too much dependence on others in a nation
 professed to be the home of the free (from government!). Let's
 all learn from it and help our cousins across the pond - and
 not criticise - we would not have performed better! And Bush
 did not cause it - for those who blame global warming, it was
 not that either - just plain cussed nature in that part of the
 world at that time. George, Chelmsford UK

<p> Parts of the US (and many other countries) have always lived
 under threat of natural disaster, and accepted the risks; or
 maybe they thought they had no choice but to live with those
 risks. How many people would move away from their hometown or
 state just because it was under greater threat from natural
 disasters than other places they could live? Maybe it's time
 all the countries of the world realised that we cannot keep
 forcing populations into these at-risk areas. I think increasingly
 changes in business and commerce, particularly, for example,
 insurance industries, will play a major role in shaping the
 future of whether people continue to inhabit areas at risk from
 natural disaster.Dawn, Manchester, UK

<p>Katrina has brought all eyes back home

<p>
Kaitlin, Minneapolis, USA

<p> I truly hope when the dust from Katrina settles that my fellow
 American will wake up from their sleepwalk. We are walking on
 thin ice bearing the very, very heavy load that is the American
 lifestyle. Katrina has brought all eyes back home (where they
 should be) and many questions are being asked. The tragedy has
 revealed weaknesses and vulnerabilities not only in our government
 but in our image of ourselves. It has also revealead great strengths,
 causing people to rely on their neighbour for support. I know
 many will never be the same after this, and I deeply hope that
 my country will also change for the better. Kaitlin, Minneapolis,
 USA

<p> There has been a prevailing attitude in the US for the past
 five years that everything should be privatized and outsourced
 to the private sector. This is particularly problematic when
 applied to the government agency FEMA, which has a responsibility
 that falls under the banner of disaster response. If people
 cannot accept the fact that that certain federal responsibilities
 cannot be privatized, then I am afraid that the US will have
 learned nothing from this tragedy.Anon, California, USA

<p> Everyone seems to like kicking America when it's down but it's
 the first country everyone goes running to for help when they
 need it. There are a lot of countries out there that owe the
 US a lot. I think we should all help them as much as we can
 in their hour of need. Darran Kilburn, Manchester, England

<p> It is way too early to know whether Katrina has changed or will
 change the US. Don't blame us if you had a false impression
 of America. I can assure you that we struggle with class and
 race on a scale befitting a nation of our size and diversity.
 And please, stop making comparisons between the behaviours of
 Katrina victims vs. Tsunami victims. People are really the same
 all over the world. However, some just have a lot more TV cameras
 pointed at them. Paul C. Melstrom, Eau Claire, WI, USA

<p> I think the botched relief efforts of Katrina has changed how
 citizens view the effectiveness of their government and questions
 the proposal implied since 9/11. It hasn't directly altered
 my life but it will have future ramifications. The incredibly
 lack of coordination and communication between our local, state,
 and federal agencies must look ridiculous to other countries,
 especially since the USA is a super power. Here we are the liberators
 and defenders of democracy. But we can't effectively coordinate
 on our own soil an "action plan".J. Fields, Colorado, USA

<p> We as citizens of the United States are helping each other.
 We always do when there is a disaster. We have our problems
 just like other countries, but please keep in mind that we seem
 to be the first one the rest of the world calls on when there
 are disasters elsewhere. Will they continue to do so?Jacqui
 Dixon, Granby, Connecticut USA

<p> I am sick and tired of people who have no idea of what it is
 like to be an African American, saying that the lack of response
 from the US government has nothing to do with race. I wish some
 of you people would wake up and realize that the playing fields
 are still not even.Keva, New York

<p> For all who like to think that the US is suddenly out for the
 count, I'm sorry to disappoint you. Outside the affected Gulf
 Coast, life has continued on as usual, except for a blip in
 the gasoline prices and the intense fund-raising for the victims.
 To think that our nation has somehow been exposed as fragile
 is preposterous: an entire city has been obliterated while America
 keeps running.Michael, Ohio, USA

<p>If you form your impressions only from the politicians, you are
 missing the truth 

<p>
Steve, Howell, MI, USA

<p> I cannot understand the callousness of so many who see this
 calamity as an opportunity to criticize American society. Clearly,
 you don't have any personal experience in the US. As with any
 other country, there are good and there are bad. If you form
 your impressions only from the politicians, you are missing
 the truth and have my sympathy.Steve, Howell, MI, USA

<p> Katrina brings the true portrayal of how the US is emphasizing
 more on foreign affairs than domestic issues. While the National
 Guard is meant to protect the US citizens, and maintain law
 and order domestically, they have been shipped out to Iraq to
 protect the US interests abroad. The international community
 is surely wondering how this is happening inside the "Superpower,
 Democratic model". As a citizen, indeed I feel vulnerable in
 viewing the total chaos in New Orleans and the surroundings.
 Rezwan Rashid, Dallas, USA

<p>The rest of the world seems to revel in the misfortunes of the
 US

<p>
Ted Miller, Springfield, VA USA

<p> The lesson I have learned is that the rest of the world seems
 to revel in the misfortunes of the US. I believe we Americans
 should remember this fact the next time a foreign country gets
 itself in the fire and naturally expects us to bail them out.Ted
 Miller, Springfield, VA USA

<p> Perhaps the most startling aspect of the disaster was how quickly
 the American people appeared to spiral into chaos and lawlessness.
 This was certainly noticed in Washington, and is likely setting
 off alarm bells everywhere. To everyone else, it should be a
 wake-up call to the thin skin of civilization we all cling to,
 and the frailty of modern nations to large scale disaster.Gavin,
 Victoria, BC

<p> Katrina has definitely not changed the way I will reach into
 my pockets and support disasters outside of my country even
 though the US sees very little in return! Katrina has definitely
 not changed the way I look at so called "allies" who use this
 crisis as a mode for kicking America while they are down. So,
 basically nothing has changed for this American because I view
 all human life as equal no matter what nationality and also
 expect absolutely nothing from the international community besides
 criticism because that is how it has always been. Some things
 never change!Zachery , Atlanta, USA

<p>It has affected the life of everyone in USA by one way or another

<p>
Raheel Qayyum, Virginia, USA

<p> It's a natural disaster. No matter how accurate your predictions
 are you can't be 100% sure. It's not a matter of pointing fingers.
 We Americans have proved to the world that we are standing right
 next to each other in the time of need. We really appreciate
 all the help that European nations are offering to USA. It has
 affected the life of everyone in USA one way or another. But
 things will come back to normal. The response from oil rich
 nations like Saudi Arabia is very disappointing; the oil rich
 nations need to produce more oil to fill the gap due to Katrina.
 God Bless AmericaRaheel Qayyum, Virginia, USA

<p> The lasting effect will be the Gulf will be rebuilt, people
 will move back there and life will continue, just as Europe
 continues after floods and fires. The poor are unfortunately
 always the ones who suffer the most. Everyone needs to stop
 the blame game, stop the "look at how the mighty US can't handle
 a hurricane" and just let us get on with the recovery. Nick,
 US

<p>In the end, these people will join the ranks of the 43 million
 uninsured and the homeless

<p>
Fischer, US

<p> The lives of Katrina's victims have been changed forever. Shelters
 won't house them indefinitely. Jobs are scarce - especially
 those that pay a living wage. Affordable housing is hard to
 find. Government assistance will cease when the media drops
 the story. In the end, these people will join the ranks of the
 43 million uninsured and the homeless. They will still be poor.
 What has changed? Nothing.Fischer, US

<p> One thing that appears to be changing is that our press has
 finally grown a spine. As long as the mainstream media doesn't
 allow itself to be spoon-fed by the Bush administration maybe
 we can have an honest discussion about the reality of life in
 America. Then maybe we can see a few other things change around
 here.Kate, Madison, WI USA

<p> The hurricane season has not finished. One shudders to think
 what would happen if the region gets hit again before it has
 a chance to recover. By the time the "Bush" enquiry comes up
 with who to blame instead of what to do to prevent this again,
 it could have happened again. This is mother natures wake up
 call to us all.Gary Lister, UK

<p> OK. So, to all you utopianists out there. Yes. I guess you could
 replace George W. Bush, end poverty, racism, eliminate SUVs
 and all the rest of the contributing factors to global pollution
 and strife. We could all hold hands across the world and sing
 songs of deliverance and love and unity. But listen, nature
 will still scratch us off its back like a pack of fleas. The
 geological history is there for all to plainly see - the world
 has gone through many periods of extinction. It will outlive
 the human race; regardless of our political policies or religious
 (or non-religious) persuasions. History is not a static event.
 History is now. This "disaster" is just one of millions and
 millions of histological events.Dennis J. Williams, 

<p>I am no longer interested in what a politician stands for, I
 am interested in what they can do to lead

<p>
Will, USA

<p> We have learned that as an electorate, we have to do a better
 job finding people with actual leadership qualities and characteristics
 because when it all hits the fan, ideological consistency is
 meaningless. So I am no longer interested in what a politician
 stands for, I am interested in what they can do to lead.Will,
 USA

<p> While I believe global warming is real, those who are insisting
 this storm is because of it are ridiculous. Did you know this
 was neither the first, nor even the strongest hurricane to ever
 hit the US? I'm impressed you signed Kyoto, but not impressed
 by your total failure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in
 your own countries. Your global warming hysteria isn't helping
 any of the victims of this disaster.Shawn, Washington, DC, USA

<p> This disaster has revealed much about the US and the rest of
 the world. Many countries were ready and prepared to help, but
 I think there is a general feeling that such a wealthy nation
 should be better prepared, better able to help its own. It is
 being said that the victims are in a third world situation.
 Wouldn't it be wonderful if Americans developed a greater understanding
 for what third world countries deal with daily? I am personally
 appalled that this could happen in a country with endless resources.
 It is shameful.Kimberley, Canada

<p> Hopefully the US will learn that in order to get compassion,
 you should show compassion. Patronising the less fortunate is
 not the same thing. I am afraid though the partially harsh reactions
 will be seen by a majority of Americans as further US bashing,
 and they will continue to retreat in the direction that has
 earned them the apparent lack of sympathy they are now getting.
 I doubt they will start asking themselves why people feel about
 them this way, and become even more rigid in their "if you are
 not with us you are against us" stance. Ed Karten, London, UK

<p> Such a disaster would change the way people see their way of
 life and country safety, as September 11th did. Many are blaming
 Bush for it, but where were the local "Democratic" Authorities?
 Nobody saw them either.Stefano Angeli, Cesena, Italy

<p> It seems nobody knows that the US has a federal system of government.
 Unless another country unleashed Katrina on us, it's mainly
 the local and State's responsibility, though the national government
 can wiggle its way in. Stop bashing Bush - this wasn't his fault
 nor his immediate responsibility.Craig, Washington DC 

<p> It saddens me that governments have no problem raising funds
 when the goal is killing people (war), but when it comes to
 saving lives, the task is much harder.Steve Clark, Inverness,
 Scotland

<p>This disaster will in the long run make us a stronger nation

<p>
Mark Mercer, Denver, Colorado

<p> Many outside of the US have no concept whatsoever of the scope
 of the devastation Katrina wrought. Many want to pile on our
 country and view us in such a negative light. This disaster
 will in the long run make us a stronger nation, so to the majority
 of you out there who see our downfall coming, I say do not even
 begin to write us off! America is still and always will be the
 beacon of hope.Mark Mercer, Denver, Colorado

<p> I cannot understand why there was such a delay by state and
 federal agencies in responding. There were clear warnings of
 catastrophic conditions following the hurricane, yet the most
 powerful nation on earth was inept in providing assistance.
 There are many lessons to be learned and many questions to be
 answered by those in FEMA and other government agencies. Susan
 , Edmonton, Canada

<p> Perhaps the US will now be able to focus more on problems at
 home, and less on its controversial foreign policy. Perhaps
 it can also look at Kyoto and its use of oil in a whole new
 light?Graham, Cambridge, UK

<p> It's amazing how many of you criticize the anarchy seen in New
 Orleans, but do you really think the British would have reacted
 differently? People all over the world have become opportunists
 who seem to thrive off crime and terror.Lol, Yorks

<p> How many lives could have been saved if the rescuers had not
 been targets for snipers? Will the USA ever consider proper
 gun control?Dave Harvey, Swansea, UK

<p> While I feel terribly sorry for all those that have been hurt
 and lost loved ones and homes, I can't help but think this was
 handled terribly. At the same time, I remember reading that
 civilisation is only ever three missed meals away from anarchy.
 It would seem to be something that has been borne out in America
 this last week.James MacMillan, Glasgow, UK

<p>If I were American, I'd be furious with the government

<p>
Christopher Borycheski, Toronto

<p> If I were American, I'd be furious with the government. How
 is it that they can send hundreds of thousands of young men
 to another country to fight a war, yet cannot send or spend
 enough to save the lives of their own people? USA priorities
 are out of whack.Christopher Borycheski, Toronto, Canada

<p> It totally amazes me that America has always been the first
 to offer aid and come to the assistance of those in need, especially
 during wars that had nothing to do with them. Had it not been
 for America in past disasters then the world would have been
 a poorer place. Yet no one in the world will come to their aid.
 It is proof of a selfish world that takes America's helping
 hand and yet turns its back when there is need in America.Valentyna
 Thomas, Inverness, Scotland

<p> Not much, Americans will still harp on about how the rest of
 the world hates them and how no one in the world tried to help
 them, when in fact many countries offered aid even before Bush
 did.Tony, UK

<p> I am an American, living in Berlin, Germany and come from the
 Gulf Coast area and I have a big concern: Has anyone asked where
 they are pumping the polluted water to out of New Orleans? Is
 it being filtered? If not, there will be some major problem
 with the seafood from that area. Please ask the officials. Thanks.Tom
 Williams, Berlin, Germany

<p>The US should start thinking seriously about its enormous responsibility
 for global greenhouse effect

<p>
Casseyas Pierre, Erpe-Mere, Belgium

<p> If the ferocious hurricane Katrina was partly due to global
 warming, then more of the same can be expected and New Orleans
 should be prepared for more of similar calamities. Perhaps the
 US should start thinking seriously about its enormous responsibility
 for global greenhouse effect. Casseyas Pierre, Erpe-Mere, Belgium

<p>Accusations that racism has played a part in the delayed response
 to the crisis in New Orleans are barely credible. Where the
 discrimination really lies is in the lack of investment to protect
 the city from a major hurricane like Katrina. This lack of foresight
 will hit every American as the prices of gasoline continue to
 skyrocket.Chuck, formerly of New Orleans

<p> Nothing will change in the United States after this manmade
 disaster. We will go right back to destroying the earth in order
 to make money - the only thing we really care about doing these
 days.Patrick Fitzgerald, Sacramento, California

<p> I think Katrina has proven that the so called superpower America
 is as fragile as any other country in the world. Leen, Ghent,
 Belgium

<p> I think the US by now should reflect more on her attitude, and
 work with other countries to solve the many environmental issues.
 The US ha still not signed some of the environmental agreements
 for her own interest. US is not wise enough to realise that
 the effect have come back to them. Environmental disasters knows
 no boundaries, Katrina is a good example. KH Loo, Malaysia

<p>Will the US administration finally admit that global warming
 is a reality

<p>
Jamie Marshall, Manchester, UK

<p> Given the increasing devastating effects of these storms and
 continuing pressure from the international community, will the
 US administration finally admit that global warming is a reality
 and they are the biggest contributors?Jamie Marshall, Manchester,
 UK

<p> It must seem ironic to many that a nation which can transport
 four hundred thousand troops (with all their attendant equipment)
 halfway around the world to attack Iraq cannot even help its
 own people on its own soil. The politics of the Bush administration
 have made the world's greatest nation appear like a Third World
 country. What an embarrassing mess! Let us all pray that the
 Mayor of New Orleans is wrong in his estimates of the possible
 casualty count. Michael, UK

<p> It hasn't changed the US at all, and it won't. Sure people talk
 about changing things or play the "blame game". People will
 most likely keep this disaster in the spotlight for a couple
 of months, then the press will move on to newer headlines and
 the people will slowly forget. Most people already are forgetting
 9/11. What makes Katrina any different?Matthew, Sacramento CA

<p> There really seems to be a lot of animosity posted here from
 all sides. Perhaps this disaster will show the world that the
 people of America are not defined by or are representative of
 the Bush administration or its questionable foreign policy but
 are ordinary, fragile people like the rest of us. Our thoughts
 must be with the survivors and families of the victims as fellow
 human beings. God bless them. Stuart, UK

<p> I've often wondered if a disaster such as this one happened
 here in the US if the rest of the world would come to our aid.
 I am grateful that so many in the global community were able
 to take a high road and see beyond political barriers and personal
 opinions and see an opportunity to help humankind. Regardless
 of what government and authority figures do and say, we - the
 regular people - are grateful for the extended concern and aid.
 Monique, USA

<p>The repercussions of Katrina for the US are going to be immense

<p>
Ronnie, Suffolk, UK

<p> Come on folks, let's be fair to the US. I was as dismayed as
 the next person during the early days after the disaster and
 clearly the authorities were caught wrong-footed. But what's
 done is done. Right now, they appear to be throwing everything
 at the problem and when you read how many thousands of people
 are being accommodated by neighbouring states in a very short
 space of time, I think they now deserve some credit for their
 hospitality and organisational skills. The repercussions of
 Katrina for the US are going to be immense. I certainly don't
 always agree with some of their international policies, but
 they are a decent nation and those poor people in the southern
 states didn't deserve this.Ronnie, Suffolk, UK

<p> It highlights how fragile our civilisation is. A few days without
 services, and order completely breaks down.Steve, UK

<p> We have learned that emergency and disaster management must
 start at local and state levels. We have also seen how difficult
 it is to lead and organise, how easy it is to criticise. Jack
 Hardy, Miami, USA

<p> Katrina has exposed fundamental problems in American society,
 notably the division of wealth along racial lines, the abandonment
 of the poor, the absurd federalist bureaucracy and the complete
 lack of gun controls. The US has been shown to be a country
 that does not care about its more vulnerable citizens; a society
 that values capital above human life and the welfare of the
 planet.MC, London, UK

<p>We came together to start helping those in need

<p>
Kenny Bain, Vivian, LA, USA

<p> As a Louisianan, I must say that I wish the world could see
 what the rest of the state and country is doing to help out.
 As soon as this happened, we came together to start helping
 those in need. What many people outside the US (and many inside)
 do not understand is that it is not the Federal government's
 duty to provide initial relief, but rather the local and state
 government. Quite frankly, the reason this looked so unorganised
 is that no-one at local and state level followed the disaster
 plan. Regardless of what is said by the mayor of New Orleans,
 the fact remains that the he could have ordered school buses
 to go into the housing projects and assist those without cars
 in getting out of town. Yes, there was a breakdown at many levels,
 but it was a breakdown at the lowest levels that kept even the
 basics from happening.Kenny Bain, Vivian, LA, USA

<p> I think countries will think twice about following the US style
 of hands off government as it clearly failed when faced with
 a real challenge. I can't help thinking that countries with
 larger social safety nets would have coped better. It seems
 that in a completely privatised society there is no-one to care
 for the sick, elderly and poor in this sort of situation.Sara
 


