
URL: http://nielsenhayden.com/makinglight/archives/006019.html
<p>
InternetNews.com has an article Panix.com Hijacking Causes Panic
 that includes some additional details. It appears that while
 there was indeed a failure at Melburne IT, Panix may well be
 not entirely blameless. 

<p>According to a couple of articles, including the Netcraft article,
 Panix officials insist that the panix.com domain had been registrar
 locked at the time of the hijack. However, George DeCarlo, vice
 president of marketing at Dotster (Panix's registrar), is reported
 in the InternetNews.com article as saying that Panix did not
 sign onto Dotster's domain-locking service. According to at
 least one knowledgeable poster on NANOG, the panix.com domain,
 as of a month ago, was not locked. The fact that the domain
 wasn't locked doesn't absolve Melburne IT of failing to adequately
 authenticate a transfer request, but it does indicate that Panix
 may not have been as careful as they should have been. 

<p>
Nice piece at EWeek (successor to PC Week http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1759,1751981,00.asp
 ).....Have the new rules already failed, or have the registrars
 failed their customers?.... 

<p>Reports are several domains were redirected. One source says
 "Almost 500,000 unique visitors were diverted yesterday to spyware"

<p>Any thoughts from the international crowd about title and registry
 as systems for confirming ownership of intangibles cf. systems
 for land title? 

<p>A public audit trail for ownership and hosting transfers sounds
 nice. The registries auctioning expired and soon to expire domains
 just might put a registry in some conflict with its clients?

<p>
Without disputing their designation as "for-real criminals,"
 it would be quite foolish to pay for such an operation using
 your own credit line, and computer crackers have at least as
 much access to card numbers as people who are used to stealing
 actual physical money.

<p>It wasn't that Dortmunder didn't like computers. You could fence
 them at the same discount as fur coats or DVD recorders, and
 a considerably better rate than large pieces of jewelry with
 names. What he found troubling was the unreality of computer
 money. Once upon a time, you robbed a store, or if you were
 large-minded, a bank, and you had a bag with paper in it. Everybody
 liked the paper, and took it happily. (One of Dortmunder's girlfriends
 called it "fungibility." The relationship didn't last long after
 that.) But the important thing was, you knew when you had the
 paper, you could put it in a box and open up the box to make
 sure it was still there. Somebody might steal the box -- it
 happened all the time -- but there were things to do about that,
 not all of them involving blunt instruments. The computer was
 a box, but you not only couldn't look inside it to see if the
 money was there, if the money wasn't there, nobody could tell
 Dortmunder exactly where it might have gone, or if it even still
 existed. The U.S. Government had a pretty good set of rules
 for replacing money that had unfortunately gotten a little burned
 or had to have unpleasant substances scrubbed off it. They were
 pretty nice about doing that, for the government. That didn't
 seem to be true with computer money. It was kind of like knocking
 over a jewelry store to steal the pretty reflections.

<p>
Dotster isn't claiming that it's all Panix's fault. The procedure
 for
 transferring *unlocked* domains involves notifying the
 customer and
 the original registrar. That didn't happen. (The
 procedure for
 transferring locked domains is "unlock it first",
 which also involves
 notifications.)

<p>(My understanding is second hand, culled from a weekend of reading

 panix.questions. Please correct me if I'm wrong.)

<p>
Giant bears that shoot laser beams from their eyes were a uhm-er
 distinctive element of a particular indie RPG, still well remembered
 among those of us who were there at the time for its awesome
 awesomelessness. Could be pure coincidence, of course.

<p>
_Metamorphosis Alpha_ had bipedal wolves that shot radiation
 from their eyes, which would really suck if your were a hard-working
 elk just out to earn an honest day's fodder and make it through
 the day without hair loss or skin tumors.

<p>
Ah, I fondly remember the silly monsters our local DMs came
 up with: the Fire-Breathing Hobbit, the Molotov Cocktroll (a
 troll that explodes when you kill it)...I'm not sure if the
 Finger-Joint Shooting Skeletons were original, but I'm pretty
 sure the Toe-Joint version was; they were called MissleToes.

<p>Then there was the Wing, which was nothing but a great big...wing.
 It wasn't particularly dangerous, but it was completely indestructible,
 so there was no way to kill it for Experience Points. An example
 of a TWP, or Time Wasting Pimp.

<p>They were always creating some silly variation that wasn't as
 dangerous or valuable, so that the players would waste time
 being careful and trying to kill the thing, instead of ignoring
 it. One more example: there was a standard critter called an
 Umber Hulk, which had some kind of mindcontrol spell, I don't
 remember what. My local DMs invented the Lumber Hulk, which
 had Control Plants. 

<p>
Theft of intangibles is not new--look at the amount of fighting
 and delays in publishing in the scientific world occurs over
 whose name goes first on a paper/book/study! There were some
 important ones held up for -years- over such disputes! 

<p>That's a subset of what might be called "fame-stealing" or "fame
 assigning" or other such things.

<p>Another related example--I heard an NPR interview with a woman
 whose job is getting permission from people for them to appear
 identifiable on e.g. American's Dumbest Criminals. The reasons
 the people agree range from plain old financial remuneration,
 to their time unit of fame, to the comments made by a DUI offender
 who tried to bribe the arresting police officer with sex, she
 wanted the video public and a copy of it for herself as a tangible
 reminder she could playback anytime she was tempted to touch
 alcohol again, to show herself just how utterly depraved and
 disgusting she got when drinking, so she would NOT do so again.
 

<p>But anyway, the lure of being of focused on and getting that
 -fame- and exposure, acted as a powerful incentive. 

<p>
MelbourneIT was not as merely clueless as the article makes
 out. When Alexis finally did reach the president's cell phone,
 all he got was a return call from the corporate attorney saying
 that they weren't going to do anything about it.

<p>Likewise, Verislime was notified unforgeably (personal contact
 by personally-known people to their NOC), and they also refused
 to return the domain.

<p>
Seth -- is the president of Melbourne IT clueful? (He should
 be, but is he?) That sounds like standard behavior of a non-geek
 CEO bothered about geek matters on a weekend (at least if the
 botherer isn't someone who can drop a hammer on the CEO's company).
 If MeIT was spun off from a university, who knows what kind
 of management it was left with?

<p>
Chip: From reports on NANOG, MIT's CTO, at least, appears to
 be a stand-up guy. The CEO...well, what do you think?

<p>(Yes, I know that I am not the Seth from whom you expected a
 response, I just couldn't resist. Mr. Breidbart has gotten mail
 intended for me on at least one occasion, and vice versa. The
 first time we met in person, I was disappointed to find that
 we did not mutually annihilate in a shower of gamma rays.)

<p>
Metal Fatigue: I think you support my point. Seth was damning
 the company for the actions of clueless top management. (Yes,
 it's nice when the CEO is responsible -- consider the round
 of idiot-CEO trials coming up -- but if the CTO is a standup
 guy it seems unlikely to me that the company as such could have
 committed a geek crime.)

<p>I'm not Seth either, but my impression was always that there
 was a disconnect between techies and management there. The tech
 people I worked with were serious and straightforward, while
 the management layer were the sort of people who went on about
 "Corporate Excellence" and "World Class Services" and so on.

<p>in late January 1996, from Verisign. I planned to use it for
 my business, and for my Mystery Writers part of my web domain.
 Then I had to shut down my 3-room office from which I ran Sherlock
 Holmes Resume Service (partner bailed on me, who'd split the
 rent).

<p>So I changed the snailmail address on my domain registration
 to my home address, and Verisign agreed. End of the year, they
 snailmailed to my old office, and I never got that. Next thing
 I know, the domain name's scopped up by some obsessed fan who'd
 legally changed his name to Sherlock Holmes (you know, like
 that guy who comes to cons and shows you that his driver's license
 in in his legal name: James T. Kirk).

<p>I could never get it back. So I have to use:

<p>http://www.magicdragon.com/UltimateMystery/Mystery-Index.html

<p>which just doesn't have the name-recognition and marketing pizazz.
 Not domainjacking. Just that Verisign never cared then, and
 doesn't care now.

<p>
JVP wrote:So I changed the snailmail address on my domain registration
 to my home address, and Verisign agreed. End of the year, they
 snailmailed to my old office, and I never got that. Next thing
 I know, the domain name's scopped up

<p>Changing the address on your domain registration does NOT automatically
 mean your billing address is updated accordingly. This sort
 of thing was unfortunately all too common with verisign at the
 time... 

<p>This is either a bug, or a feature, depending on how you look
 at the situation.

<p>Bonus points for one of the better views of what my daughter
 & her girlfriends call "Oh look, it's Elijah Wood being asked
 a really hard math question". (Their casting question: why is
 Frodo so pretty when the other hobbits are so normal looking?)

<p>There were three original tribes, or peoples, or whichever, of
 hobbits; Stoors, Harfoots, and Fallowhides.

<p>After they stopped wandering around Wilderland, got over the
 Misty Mountains, and settled down in the Shire, these tribal
 distinctions mostly went away, but some of the older prominent
 families retained some of the characteristics thereof.

<p>The important one for this purpose is that the Tooks retain a
 strong Fallowhide strain -- meaning that they tend to be thin
 (for Hobbits), 'bookish', 'pro-elvish interests' like book-learning
 and the lore of strangers, and pretty, rather than being robust
 or handsome -- and that Frodo has a lot of Took in him that,
 well, took.

<p>So they cast Frodo to look outright Elvish, to go with the way
 he's described at various points.

<p>Alternatively, most of the production was in the hands of rabid
 fangirls and they wanted Frodo to be really cute.

<p>In the end, I think the second supposition has the better support
 on the basis of available evidence.

<p>
There is a Seth Breidbart Ph.D Yale, BA and MA Harvard aka "Seth
 of the Lunarians" in Fallen Angels aka Seth of "Kill Seth! Kill
 Seth! Kill Seth!" I know, is that the fellow being referred
 to as "Mr Breidbart"??? 

<p>Mutually annihilate in gamma rays? Naw, much too mundane and
 no abstruse math involved.... [Seth is a Math Geek, but doesn't
 show it generally as publically as some people do....] 

<p>
A fairly lightweight local newspaper story on your recent ISP
 transfer troubles. (No, they couldn't resist the panix pun either.
 Did the name come from something like Public Access Network
 ... ix? ... er Number Nine??)

<p> Merry chase but no need to PanixThe hijacking of a domain name
 led to some swift phone calls across the world, writes Sam Varghese.

<p>
Metal Fatigue: you are the anti-Seth? (I will leave aside a
 theological discussion about whether that necessarily makes
 you Osiris.) Perhaps you could supply antisethtics for the raffle
 at Lunacon. (No, seriously, Seth buys a lot of tickets and thus
 contributes lots of money to the cause. Whatever it is.)

<p>At any rate, I think you actually agree with Paula, who was saying
 that mutual annihilation would be too mundane, and not involve
 sufficient abstruse math, to be the end of the Seth and the
 Anti-Seth. 

<p>I suggest that what actually happened when you met in the flesh
 is that each of you generated a virtual self, which changed
 places with the corresponding self of the other, and that the
 originals were, in fact, annihilated and replaced with the virtuals,
 not that it matters (npi), since they are identical in every
 respect. To a casual observer it would appear that you passed
 close to each other (or perhaps through each other, but no such
 observation has been reported in the Journal of Sethology) with
 no ill effects, whereas actually mutual annihilation was, in
 fact, achieved, but the matter generated was exactly equal to
 the energy released (minus a bit for entropy; I assume you felt
 somewhat tired after this event).

<p>The abstruse math is left to the reader. If Catherine Asaro is
 out there, no doubt she can correct my physics (which is a little
 rusty, since I haven't studied it since about 1972).

<p>re: "The abstruse math is left to the reader. If Catherine Asaro
 is out there, no doubt she can correct my physics (which is
 a little rusty, since I haven't studied it since about 1972)."

<p>I will avoid abusing readers with Math and Physics, except to
 point out the current controversy about information being lost
 or not lost in Black Holes (Stephen Hawking admitting he was
 wrong, etc.). For our purposes, if Seth fell into a black hole,
 and Metal Fatigue did not, but Seth & anti-Seth are quantum
 entangled, then what happens to their blog postings? This being
 the Einstein Wonderyear Centenary, the International Year of
 Physics, and all that, there's a Nobel Prize in Blogology waiting
 for the right person here...

<p>
Epacris: panix I think came from "public access network *ix",
 inasmuch as most Unix variants of the time were called something
 ending in -ix (Ultrix, AIX, etc) and were generically called
 *ix.

<p>
I heard a story on NPR that the US government was upset with
 Panix for refusing to turn over customer lists, or something
 like that. Is anyone here familiar with that story? I hate to
 feel paranoid.

<p>
A memory just surfaced from long ago, wherein at the end of
 a party at a convention, Mr Ford made a reference to the poem
 about Dr Edward Anti-Teller, that failed to elicit comprehension/recognition
 on the part of both TNH and PNH. 

<p>
Yes, Dr. Edward Anti-Teller, "sitting, knitting macassars for
 his chairs." Can't remember the name of the poem but it's reprinted
 by Martin Gardner in one of the Annotated Alice books...

<p>
See also recent discussions on phishing morphs to pharming -
 The Register and all the usual suspects

<p>Gerhard Eschelbeck, CTO of Qualys, cited the recent hijack of
 New York ISP Panix as typical of the type of threat that might
 emerge. Eschelbeck reckons the use of redirection attacks remains
 largely the domain of mischief makers. Other security commentators
 ascribe darker motives. "Pharming is a next-generation phishing
 attack," Scott Chasin, CTO of MX Logic, told Government Computer
 News.

<p>
The -ix name in the earlier waves of ISPs often stands for 'Internet
 Exchange'. I know this is true of 'CIX' (Commercial Internet
 Exchange) and 'LINX' (London INternet Exchange), at least. May
 or may not hold in the panix case, though.

<p>As mentioned, it appears that the CEO of MelbourneIT is clueless,
 the CTO clueful. The company deserves damnation for the actions
 of its top manglement; they're the ones responsible for (in
 any number of cases) driving it into the ground.

<p>Metal Fatigue, I seldom use the title in polite conversation,
 at least in the US. When I do use it here, it's either in a
 (very) professional situation, or insulting. I like the (implied)
 attitude of the Yale faculty on the topic: "Of course I have
 a doctorate. Doesn't everybody?"

<p>Paula, I don't have an MA from Harvard, my first degree there
 is an SM. (Advanced degrees there are in Latin.)

<p>
Seth:  Paula, I don't have an MA from Harvard, my first degree
 there is an SM. (Advanced degrees there are in Latin.)

<p>When we were there, all the degrees were \named/ in Latin. (Don't
 ask me what the diploma said; I have no idea where mine is.)
 People are occasionally amused that I have an AB in Chemistry
 (because SB was awarded only for extra-heavy concentration in
 ]sciences[).

<p>I may have been too drowned to remember (it rained buckets on
 my commencement), but IIRC Yale (alma mater of my sister the
 traditionalist) outclassed Harvard in two particulars, neither
 of them involving large friendly letters: one set of degrees
 (business? law?) were conferred in the future tense (indicative,
 not subjunctive) due to a calendar glitch, and the PhDs were
 conferred in Latin.

<p>And if you want to start a fight, try contradicting a woman of
 about our classes about which college her degree is from....


