
URL: http://observer.guardian.co.uk/magazine/story/0,,1384573,00.html
<h>Frittered away

<p>Vernon's
2 Wilmslow Road, Manchester (0870 220 0560)Meal for
 two, including wine: too much at any price

<p>I knew from the moment I attempted to cut the sweet fried dumpling
 in half that we were in serious trouble. I pushed down hard.
 Nothing. 

<p>I pushed down again and suddenly, bang, half a lump of deep-fried
 sweet sponge sprang off my plate, bounced on to the floor and
 disappeared under a table. Perhaps this dumpling was trying
 to do me a favour, to spare me the horror of eating it. Sadly,
 I didn't take the hint. The remaining half was one of the nastiest
 things I have ever put in my mouth, challenged only by the other
 things I ate during my lunch at Vernon's in Manchester. It had
 been microwaved and was the texture of plasticated polystyrene.
 First I thought, 'Uh, nasty!' Then I thought, 'I'm not being
 paid enough to do this job.'

<p> On paper, Vernon's shouldn't have been this bad. Actually, nothing
 should be this bad. But Vernon's does have a pedigree, or at
 least it claims to. Jamaican-born Allen Vernon lived in Manchester
 for 20 years before going to New York, where, in 1982, he set
 up Vernon's Jerk Paradise. It quickly became the pre-eminent
 Jamaican restaurant in the city. The New York Times said so.
 Big names went to eat there. He has signed photographs on the
 wall from Bill Cosby, Shabba Ranks and Rudolph Giuliani. This
 year he decided to return to Manchester to open this new Vernon's
 on an unremarkable corner site in Rusholme. Oh that he hadn't.

<p>There are two possibilities. Either the food writers of The New
 York Times are a bunch of know-nothing schmucks (a possibility,
 I grant you) or, in his dotage, Vernon can't be fagged to do
 things properly. What else can explain his decision to microwave
 the starters? Believe me, there is nothing nastier than a pre-fried
 cod fritter which has then been irradiated so it leaks grease
 into your mouth while, at the same time, it toughens up. Nothing,
 that is, apart from microwaved, cooked, unpeeled chilli-drenched
 prawns. 

<p>I would also advise against trying the plantain or patties. I
 would rather self-stitch my mouth closed than eat any of those
 dishes again.

<p>But perhaps even more startling (read horrible) than any of this
 was the desperately poor specimen of jerk chicken. Living in
 Brixton I know a bit about good jerk. I know about the spice
 rubs and the barbecuing. I know about the blackness of the skin
 and the moistness of the flesh and it was the taste for it that
 I had acquired in my own neighbourhood which decided me to train
 it to Rusholme for this 'authentic Jamaican bistro'. The version
 here also seemed to have suffered the fast-oven treatment: the
 meat visibly hardened on the plate. The skin was flaccid and
 the kidney beans in the rice and peas had split open to reveal
 their massacred innards.

<p>Only the stewed oxtail and the goat curry were palatable, as
 in you could eat them without grimacing. In the evenings they
 serve some grandstanding dishes: old harbour pot roast, ackee
 and salt fish, for around £12 a throw. The lunch menu is much
 cheaper: £2 each for starters, £7 for mains. But that doesn't
 make it better. If someone said, 'Here, eat this plate of broken
 glass; it's free,' you wouldn't say, 'Ooh! What a bargain.'
 And £38 for three for this filthy rubbish isn't a bargain either.
 The Caribbean culinary tradition is neither grand, wide nor
 deep. But it has virtue. Here, at Vernon's, every ounce of virtue
 has been stolen from it.


