
URL: http://oskuro.net/blog/2004/Sep
<p>I couldn't resist to publicly thank Thiemo Seufer for all the
 invisible work he (with others) has done to fix a series of
 problems in the mipsen toolchain. Thanks to his work on binutils
 and gcc, mozilla and offspring are now compilable on our 11
 architectures, which was a quite big sarge blocker.

<p>Sometimes I feel this kind of jobs are not rewarded by users
 as much as "package the latest GNOME/KDE/X/whatever" kind of
 job because it's not as visible, unless you pay attention to
 apt-listchanges or the BTS. But without them, there would be
 no GNOME or KDE packages at all!

<p>The observative Debian developers will have noticed that the
 Debian ALSA team hadn't been as good as usual at delivering
 new upstream versions a few days^H^H^H^Hweeks after it was released.

<p>There were several reasons for this. The three team members (StevenK,
 ElectricElf and me) got busy in other fronts, and the bug count
 didn't stop going up. At one point, the BTS was too full of
 ALSA bugs for us to be able to handle it, which just added a
 bit more to the problem, because we never found time to sit
 down and do triage.

<p>Also, when we started the Alioth project, SVN or Arch weren't
 available, so we went for a CVS setup which involved importing
 the upstream sources to CVS and then working on top of that.
 I never quite understood why we needed the whole sources in
 CVS, but as I never got involved in the import business, I was
 more or less ok with the setup. We would then use cvs-buildpackage
 to build the stuff, and it worked quite well.

<p>The problems came when ElectricElf started to be busy and away
 from IRC. I dared not try to import the new upstream versions
 myself, as I had managed to break the import twice in the past
 (no, it's not so trivial), requiring Elf intervention to cleanup
 after me. StevenK more or less managed to do stuff, but when
 something went wrong, he also needed ElectricElf to look after
 the repo. In short, we were depending on the Elf, who was just
 too busy to do the stuff.

<p>ALSA 1.0.6 was released over a month ago, and we hadn't tried
 seriously to update the packages until now, because nobody was
 stepping up to do the import stuff. So the three of us recently
 considered adding new blood to the ALSA group, and we asked
 Thomas Hood, who had been very helpful doing some BTS work on
 our bugs in the past, to join us.

<p>The last week has seen new vitality in pkg-alsa activity thanks
 to him, but again the CVS issue was a showstopper. We managed
 to do more or less sane alsa-oss and alsa-utils uploads, but
 importing alsa-driver, which is always the bitch, failed again.
 Thomas and I agreed that the setup was way overegineered for
 a few packages that never touch the upstream sources directly
 anyway, as we use dpatch, and I considered switching to SVN.
 StevenK is an Arch dude though, and was reluctant. This morning,
 to my surprise, he told us we could try SVN so I rushed to import
 our stuff in.

<p>The result is that after the quick and clean import of just our
 debian/ dirs into our new SVN repo, we've done 1.0.6 uploads
 of the alsa-foo packages in less than one day. And we've got
 more fixes on the way...

<p>Hmm. This was a long way of saying "ALSA packaging moved to SVN".
 Procrastination is sometimes like this... :)

<p>Manoj: sorry if I moaned about cvs-buildpackage before... nothing
 wrong with that, it's just our ex-setup which was quite inconvenient...

<p>I went to the dentist to get the first of my wisdom teeth removed.
 I went in a bit nervous, like a 10 year old, but I was more
 annoyed than frightened about the removal. I was quite happy
 of having grown up with no teeth decay and with all my teeth
 in good shape, and now I had to get some removed even if they
 are healthy.

<p>Anyway, it all lasted for about 25 minutes, including the short
 wait for my turn and the wait for the anesthesia to do its job.
 After that, the doctor started pulling and doing stuff and voilà,
 it was out, and my mouth full of blood. He gave me my tooth
 so I can do whatever I want with it. It's long, and the part
 that was exposed is cleaner than what wasn't. I'm keeping it
 for a while, maybe I get a great idea of what to do with four
 long Wisdom teeth. I tried to get two teeth out at once, but
 the doctor said it wasn't possible, as that would involve both
 sides of the mouth, and that can get annoying when eating. The
 next two to go out will involve surgery. That won't be as easy
 as today...

<p>The rest of the evening was spent at Kike's house and trying
 to go to the bicycle demonstration for the "Day without cars",
 but we got to the starting point late and never found them.
 So, while we looked for it, Kike told me Ferran Torrent is about
 to publish the third part of the book saga "Societat limitada"
 and "Espècies protegides". Not finding the group of bicycles,
 we moved to FNAC to look for the new book, but it isn't out
 yet. I'll raid the "Tres i quatre" bookstore to get it as soon
 as it's out. I can't wait.

<p>Oh, before the dentist I met Kike and Raúl to plan our next
 cycling trip during the October 9-12 long weekend. The route
 is decided, and it's going to be *tough* once again!

<p>Even if I said I had finished season 2004, I ended signing up
 for the last triathlon of the 2004 calendar, in Pinedo (hey,
 it was free after all!). This was a wild idea, even if the triathlon
 is sprint distance and oriented to attract new people to triathlon,
 with easy courses for the bike and run. I have not trained at
 all since I came back from Oxford, and today it showed a bit...

<p>First, I went to Pinedo after having very, very little sleep
 during the whole weekend, and very tired. I was one of the first
 guys to get boxes setup, so 40 minutes before the start I was
 walking around half naked in the cold of dawn.

<p>When it was finally time to get into water to warm up, I started
 waking into the sea and came across a large rock that was hiding
 inside the dirty sea water (Pinedo's is the first beach near
 the entrance to Valencia's big sea harbour, and it sucks), and
 hit my knee quite hard. I didn't give this much importance besides
 the usual loud cursing and swearing, and went swimming for a
 while. When I came out to get ready for the triathlon start,
 someone told me "hey, what the fuck is that?", pointing at my
 leg. Eww, it was completely red, from the blood coming out of
 my knee. It didn't hurt, so I just cleaned it with some water
 and a few minutes later the race started.

<p>As usual, I got many blows until I got to the first buoy, and
 I wasn't getting any good sensations. I came out of the sea
 quite behind my normal positions, I guess, and quickly came
 out for the cycling. I managed to link with the pack ahead of
 me and all was well until I completed the second lap of four.
 Then, the knee started to hurt a little, then a bit more, until
 I lost my group and a few others that came from behind. I was
 very close to abandon the race after the third lap, but decided
 to do the last 5 kilometres to see if the run was ok with my
 knee.

<p>As soon as I started running, I realized my knee hurted still,
 so I abandoned after the first 500m because I didn't want to
 run the full 5 kilometres just to finish. I would if the triathlon
 was a bit interesting, but not this one...

<p>A pitty, it's the first time I don't finish a triathlon I've
 started, and I've had worse injuries in other races...

<p>After the race, there was a very cool race, an aquathlon, with
 phisically disabled people from the Valencian Disabled Sports
 Federation. It was great to see people who can't walk or have
 other mobility disorders swim some good 400 metres, get out
 of water and then race with their wheel chairs down the promenade.

<p>After the adapted race, there were a series of aquathlons for
 children. I served as "buoy man" for the smaller ones (around
 7 years), which had to swim 50 metres, so I stood in the middle
 of the sea with my teammate Montxi watching them come. That
 was great too, watching very young kids being introduced to
 this kind of sports that early.

<p>The aquathlons were the only positive moments of a quite bad
 morning. I was quite fond of not having abandoned any race until
 now... :|

<p>For a long time I had been thinking about abandoning my old nick
 Oskuro and start using something simple like jordi.

<p>I picked up Oskuro 8 years ago, when I got involved in a MUD
 at University. As I came in just a few days after Josep and
 Raúl started the project, I was given the chance of participating
 in the development, so I had to pick a nickname. As I had no
 experience at all in role-playing, I found it difficult to come
 up with a cool nickname for my Demi-God character, and at some
 point someone suggested me "Oskuro", as I was going to play
 the role of the God with bad alignment. Well, how could I imagine
 at that time that this nickname would follow me until mid-2004
 and that so many people would know me by my nick and not for
 my real name...

<p>I was directly involved in the MUD development until a bit more
 than 3 years ago, when I joined Debian and the time I could
 use for mudding activities quickly vanished. I got in touch
 with Debian's IRC while I was mudding though, so the nick stuck
 with me in the Debian world. But hey, it's a stupid nick (translates
 to dark in English, if you don't mind the spelling mistake),
 and it doesn't make much sense anymore. Many people think I'm
 dark-skinned when my skin is pale and my hair slightly blonde...
 :)

<p>I made this change on my jabber profile months ago, and today
 I finally changed my nick on OpenProjects and OFTC, not yet
 on GIMPnet as "jordi" is owned by Jordi Mas in that network.
 I guess I'll stick to jordim there, which is my *.gnome.org
 user name. I'll keep using both randomly as a transition, but
 at some point I'll abandon my old nickname for good. In short,
 look for me at jordi@OPN/OFTC on IRC!

<p>Today's testing run finally allowed eog 2.6 to enter testing,
 which was the only missing piece of the GNOME meta-packages
 in testing. Sarge users will get a few new packages pulled by
 the gnome-desktop-environment and gnome packages, and new Sarge
 installs will finally get a complete GNOME 2.6 desktop installed.

<p>The only big missing bit now is gdm 2.6, which is missing an
 arm build (already built, just not uploaded) of libselinux.
 With this version of GDM in Sarge, GNOME users will be able
 to shutdown the computer directly when they close their session,
 which is probably a feature many want to see in the release.
 And that's about it... I guess I'll do a final sarge upload
 with a few minor tweaks (version bumps and other tightening),
 and then will start to work on updating the dependencies for
 the GNOME 2.7/2.8 packages in experimental.

<p>So, in short, Sarge finally has completed the GNOME 2.6 transition.
 Even before GNOME 2.8 is released upstream!

<p>Today I was supossed to run a promotion triathlon in Moncofa,
 but I ended up not turning up. One reason is that I had a very
 bad contracture in my right shoulder. Another reason, and probably
 more important, is that I didn't think there would be a triathlon
 at all. On Saturday I went to have lunch to the beach and after
 all of these days of bad weather, the sea was very rough. An
 indication of bad weather in València is when the Malvarosa
 beach is packed with windsurf sails, and yesterday it really
 was.

<p>Óscar and I decided to not go at all, because waking up at 6:30
 for nothing would have been very annoying... and we were very
 right: this morning the triathlon was cancelled and the ran
 a duathlon instead.

<p>I wanted Moncofa to be the final competition this year, so I'm
 officially on triathlon vacation now for a few weeks. This means
 no kind of training for a few very good days until we start
 the new season in late September. Of course, a few changes in
 my life are going to keep me quite busy in the next few weeks,
 so all of this extra free time is very welcome.

<p>The season could have gone a lot better. During Winter, I had
 to overcome a variety of injuries in ankles and knees, plus
 a never-ending cold. And when the good weather came, I was quite
 unmotivated, which really doesn't help in this sport. I am only
 happy about the result in Santa Pola and Oliva. I hope 2005
 goes better overall.

<p>The big storms of the past days not only affected some trees
 and the cars below them. On Saturday I went to where my main
 server lives and discovered the primary hard drive had developed
 a new musical skill: every time the BIOS tried to access it
 it would reply with a funky loud sound I have never heard before
 (and no, it's not the usual high pitch sound of a drive when
 it's dying). After getting quite worried about those backups
 I never made, I managed to make it go quiet and boot again (that
 was just before I wrote the previous blog entry). I know I shouldn't
 be trusting that drive much more, but I have no time to look
 for a replacement right now. I hope there are no more big storms
 in some time...

<p>Besides that, my main Debian computer just would not react to
 the power switch at all. I first thought the power supply was
 completely fucked, but a few minutes ago I managed to get it
 back to life after fiddling inside the box, randomly unplugging
 and plugging power cords back and forth.

<p>In short, it seems my computers are not in their best shape ever.
 This reminds me (again) that I really need to look for a UPS
 for the two boxes. Any cheap recommendation that works well
 with GNU/Linux? And of course, this is the signal that I fucking
 need to make backups of my stuff!

<p>Aww, Erinn, when I wrote about the storm the other day I didn't
 know that you were being evacuated due to Frances. I hope all
 is well!

<p>(Readers from Florida, skip this entry as it's probably insulting
 that I talk about big storms when that hurricane is approaching
 your houses :)

<p>On Thursday, there was a big rain storm in València, one of
 the biggest I've seen in my life. By pure bad luck, I was inside
 a bar in Benimaclet at 00:15, saying good bye to my friends
 when it started to rain. As I had to cycle back home and it
 was raining a lot, I decided to wait until it stopped. 3 hours
 later, I was still inside the bar, watching how the rain got
 heavier and the square where it's located was flooding, as the
 sewers couldn't deal with all the water that was coming in.
 A few minutes later, the water was so high that it started getting
 in the bar, but luckily it stopped raining so intensely and
 the water level started to go down again.

<p>When I got home, I found the living room was full of water, as
 well as the kitchen. Cleaning that made me go to bed at 4 or
 so, making me a zombie next morning at work...

<p>Last night I went to Bétera to have dinner with some team mates,
 and I was able to see the most impressive electric storm of
 my whole life. The lightnings were continuous, and the storm
 seemed to move towards our direction. At one point it started
 raining very heavily, and water started pouring into the house
 even with the windows closed. The extremely strong winds did
 the rest: we could see how huge, 20m tall trees around us just
 broke as if they were matches, with quite bad results for the
 cars that were at one side of it, which were basically crushed.

<p>It's incredible how small and irrelevant we can feel when nature
 shows its real power...


