
URL: http://playstation2.joystiq.com/entry/1234000150056517
<h>We Love Katamari coming to America&hellip; with bad box art!

<p>Puzzle game may seem like a strange genre to squeeze junk-rolling
 oddball Katamari Damacy into, but I guess that's the closest
 approximation to categorizing the most lovable (yet darkly foreboding)
 game I've played. Well, the sequel, We Love Katamari, is finally
 making it to American shores next month, and I'm sure you're
 joining me in holding your breath until the day it's released,
 too. The only thing I'm not waiting for is the currently planned
 U.S. box art. One word: UGH! Compared to the original's surreal
 Western packaging (or the serene version of the Japanese CD
 soundtrack), this version actually cries out for some focus-group
 testing (on an almost original Xbox-controller level). Compare
 this with even the sequel's Japanese (or even Korean) covers
 in this preview from early August (see the actual art planned
 there), and I think you'll agree that something's amiss with
 Namco's American marketing team. People are angry, and they
 aren't gonna take it anymore! Considering all the speakingengagementsKatamari's
 creator has had since the release of the original, it's hard
 for me to believe this relative artistic stinker made it through
 the publisher's approval process. Personally, this illustration
 belongs on the back of the game case, not the front. Can anyone
 throw together an insert mod for me?

<p>[UPDATE: Hopefully, you didn't mistake the joke image I found
 online and included with my post above with the genuine article
 that can be found below. Just in case you didn't take the time
 to examine it, the joke image reads: "We Boycott Katamari.")
 If you missed it in my post, take a look at the officially planned,
 but still atrocious image ripped from GameFly below, and feel
 your raw hate begin to rise to new heights (don't say we didn't
 warn you): http://www.1up.com/do/imageDisplay?id=2176237]

<p>3. As far as I am concerned, 95% of the people that buy this
 game already know exactly what it is. Box art won't help sell
 this game. The fact that the art is so strange and bizarre will
 make it that much easier for me to find on store shelves. If
 the cover were any less strange or disturbing I would be dissapointed.
 I don't see how making simple cover graphics for a simple game
 is such a bad thing.

<p>4. It's not great, and definitely not up to the standard set
 by the original game. However, it's also a whole lot better
 looking than the earlier versions depicted in the link, which
 look like, respectively: the cover of a game exclusively for
 toddlers, a class picture taken by a really sh!tty photographer,
 and one of the crappy wallpapers that are installed by default
 with Windows. 

<p>
Really, when it comes down to it, this isn't a bad cover. It's
 calm, it's minimalistic, it's simple... and it's unique. Just.
 Like. The. Game.

<p>6. Actually, Andy S., take a look at that "cover of a game exclusively
 for toddlers" again, because that's the planned cover for the
 game! Hopefully, you didn't mistake the joke image I found online
 and included with my post with the genuine article. (The joke
 image reads: "We Boycott Katamari.") Take a look at the image
 ripped from GameFly one more time and feel your raw hate rise
 to new heights: 

<p>7. Except for the font, both me and my wife actually like the
 design. The Prince looks kind of timid, coming out to play,
 and considering the content ("story") of the second game it
 makes sense. 

<p>9. It could be packed in a cover that looks like a paper shopping
 bag and has the title written on it in a Sharpie. Doesn't matter
 given I look at the box for a grand total of 8 seconds before
 opening it to take out the disk.

<p>10. Why not look at this box art as another innovative addition
 by Namco to the world of video games... A world where creativity
 is usually stifled by publishers in order to rake in the mainstream
 cash. What is wrong with everyone? Something is different than
 you expected and it immediately gets trashed? Maybe they should
 have put a bunch of anime-style adolescents with lightning bolts
 going through their gravity-defying spikey, shiny blue hair,
 DDD breasts, and wielding giant swords six times their size?
 That would have been "normal." 

<p>
Games like Katamari Damacy and Nintendogs cast the conformist
 approach aside and are wildly popular. Their innovation broadens
 the variety of games we have to choose from and will hopefully
 lead to more interesting games in general. I'm glad there are
 things put out that "we" never thought of, otherwise everything
 would be boring and predictable. And speaking of "bizarre"--
 the game is bizarre, and I love it. Is this now the WRONG kind
 of crazy? Will someone please give me the list all the 6th graders
 are passing around the lunchroom so I can be current on what
 is "cool" bizarre and what is not? 

<p>
There's nothing technically wrong with the cover; if you don't
 like the box art, prove it matters and is worth all this whining
 by not purchasing it. It's ART by an ARTIST, and I find it irritating
 people are capping on it hardcore.

<p>11. As alluded to in the Gaming-Age forum posts, there is probably
 a deep and significant meaning behind the We Love Katamari cover
 art. The problem is that it just doesn't look very good, whether
 due to the obnoxious color scheme or the lack of any interesting
 visual interplay for the eye. I love Katamari, and I will buy
 this game as I did the first. But Nintendogs has a hell of a
 better looking cover (all three of 'em) than what you see here/there.

<p>13. God, can the people over on Gaming-Age bitch any more? There's
 nothing wrong with that cover, and it CERTAINLY doesn't begin
 to get close to the US box art tragedies that have plagued many
 a game in the past. 

<p>
Seriously, get over it. But this is the internet, where people
 love getting all worked up over nothing. I think the cover is
 funny, and is certainly NOT the type of cover art you'd expect
 to see on a US game, which is exactly the type of cover art
 I'd expect to see on this game.

<p>14. Upon closer inspection, the box art's not as bad as I thought.
 The thing that bothers me is the giant, solid purple roof -
 if that was toned down a bit or less glaring, the cover'd be
 fine. 

<p>
Believe me, this is far from bad, when you consider what Tecmo
 did with the US version of Kagero: Deception 2. That cover makes
 Janet Reno look like a Playboy bunny.

<p>16. Wow, I guess I'm not being clear enough about the joke art:
 the real art is linked in the body of the text. For those who
 don't catch on, I'll add an update to the post that says pretty
 much what I said in comment #6. Hope that helps, but I must
 say that the officially planned art is still pretty bad.

<p>17. Why do people care so much what the box art looks like? Were
 any of you planning on buying, then decided not to based on
 the box art? This game will sell to people who played the first
 game, and spread by word of mouth. 

<p>
As far as I'm concerned, they could put a picture of a steaming
 pile of cow dung on the front, and I'd still buy it. 

<p>
Didn't your parents ever teach you that it's what's on the inside
 that counts? :)

<p>19. Original is fine. Screamingly painful color schemes are not.
 I just hope the spine doesn't look too bad - if it is like the
 cover, I won't be able to look at my game shelf without sunglasses.

<p>21. If the roof were a different colour, this would be a cute
 cover. I was hoping for a tie-in with the first cover. I would
 have had basically the same cover, but with the katamari at
 the "front" right, where the cows were, and have the cows visible
 on the Katamari. It'd be like an in-joke for everybody.

<p>22. If the roof were a different colour, this would be a cute
 cover. I was hoping for a tie-in with the first cover. I would
 have had basically the same cover, but with the katamari at
 the "front" right, where the cows were, and have the cows visible
 on the Katamari. It'd be like an in-joke for everybody.

<p>23. For your brief information, i distinctly remember Microsoft
 proclaiming they had developed the original Xbox controller
 with input from 5000 'hardcore' gamers in focus groups ... which
 is funny.

<p>25. Yeah, I remember those reports of Xbox focus groups, too,
 elmer. Hope you liked my great solution to bad design! =) But
 seriously, I have to wonder if they had a decent cross-sampling
 of gamers in their testing groups. A few too many men with big,
 beefy hands, perhaps?


