
URL: http://plork.blogspot.com/2005/06/retail-therapy.html
<h>Tuesday, June 28, 2005

<h> retail therapy 

<p>You know that moment when you're standing in your closet and
 you're about to burst into tears and burn the thing down and
 then set fire to your own self because every item of clothing
 you own is too small or too short or too old or too stained
 or too ugly or makes you look fat/lumpy/fat and lumpy/fat, lumpy
 and ugly? 

<p>
That's a bad moment. That's a really bad moment, and it's bound
 to break you down and send you spiraling into the kind of wave
 of depression that involves pizza and self-hatred and locking
 yourself in the house and never not ever leaving and wishing
 to fuck that you could just wear a sheet to work. Or maybe that
 last part is just me.

<p>
Maybe you don't. Maybe it is all me. I hope for your sake it
 is all me, because they are really terrible moments, and I've
 had so many of those moments these past few months – one of
 those moments is what really slapped me upside the head and
 made me realized that I had to do something about the weight
 I've gained.

<p>
But now that I'm doing something, it doesn't seem fair to keep
 having those moments. Sure, sure, I've only lost four point
 whatever pounds so far. But shouldn't it have revolutionized
 my entire life? Shouldn't it have revolutionized my entire wardrobe?
 Shouldn't my fucking pants just fucking fit already?

<p>
No? Okay then.

<p>
So I had another one of those moments this past weekend when
 I was supposed to go hang out with friends of Guy's who haven't
 seen me in awhile and one of the wives of these people is totally
 gorgeous and skinny and fabulous and the kindest, sweetest person
 you've ever met and who does not give a shit what you look like
 or what you're wearing, but that of course does not stop you
 from thinking about exactly what you look like, and exactly
 what the fuck you're going to wear.

<p>
So that was catalyst one.

<p>
The second catalyst was stumbling home that night and switching
 on the television and sort of numbly watching an episode of
 What Not To Wear, in which they were re-fashioning some chick
 who wanted to lose a lot of weight and she said she was dressing
 poorly because she was waiting until she lost the weight she
 wanted to lose and one of the yappy people – Stacey or Clinton,
 I don't remember which – said, very portentously, "Dress the
 body you have! Don't wait to look good! Feel good about yourself
 NOW! Yap yap yap!" And I will not lie to you - I turned it off
 and went to sleep.

<p>
But the next morning! I thought about it and it resonated with
 me, and I thought, fucking hell. I can't do this any more –
 squeezing into things and feeling ugly and uncomfortable and
 stupid. I can't sit around waiting to feel good, because that's
 just going to drive me to drink. More. 

<p>
So I looked up the address of a fat girl store I've heard good
 things about - Torrid - and I trained it on over there and I
 tried things on and I got jeans, for fuck's sake. I haven't
 worn jeans in forever. And I got cute tops. And a jacket. And
 a pair of pants. I ignored the stupid sizes and pretended they
 didn't mean a goddamn thing and just considered how they felt,
 and considered how they looked, and by god - now I have things
 to wear that I look good in, that make me feel good about myself.
 Feel good! About myself! 

<p>
That hasn't happened in a really long fucking time.

<p>
And I know, as I stick with the program and keep exercising
 (I've been doing videos at home. I pull down all the shades.
 My neighbors thank me.) that I will lose weight and then some
 more weight and these clothes will become too big on me and
 useless and I will pack them away or give them to goodwill and
 you can tell me that I've wasted my money, on stuff I will wear,
 hopefully, for only a short while. But you know, I would have
 gladly paid a lot more for this amazing new feeling, this feeling
 I haven't had in years, of liking what I see in the mirror.
 I highly recommend it. Because it's kind of cool.

<h>12 Comments:

<p> Anonymous said... 

<p>That is very cool. It's awesome that you are being kind to yourself.
 You deserve to feel like the beautiful woman you are! 

<p>
I saw Stacey give a talk in NY last fall. She's lived what she
 says about dressing and loving the body you have: she's been
 everywhere from a size 0 to a size 16. She was a 16 when she
 was working at Vogue, surrounded by teeny-tiny stick people.
 She said that she really came into her own body then, in a good
 way.

<p>Not to be all gushy but, you rock! I've lost about 120 pounds
 in the past year and a half and though I'm only 10 pounds from
 my goal weight, and I've worked my ass off...I still have those
 moments. There are times I want to nuke not only my present
 closet, but every closet I've ever had for failing to make me
 stunning when I needed them to. 

<p>
All this is to say, I hear you girl! And though losing weight
 hasn't completely eliminated bad wardrobe days, the days where
 I say to myself "Hey, you're one hot bitch!" happen far more
 often.

<p>I am in the same situation. I recently had a baby and it seems
 like I have nothing to wear. All my old clothes are too small
 and all my newer (and bigger) clothes have stains from baby
 spit-up (very hard to get out). I keep putting off buying new
 clothes because I somehow expect for my weight to magically
 disappear. And so I continue to live in slouchy, drawstring
 pants and my husband's t-shirts. Meanwhile my self esteem is
 plummeting. I know that new clothes will help. I just need to
 find the courage to go shopping and ignore the sizes. Anyhow,
 thanks for you post. You definitely inspired me.

<p>It is never a waste of money to buy clothes you feel good in.
 Even if they're transitory clothes. Because here are some things
 that feel good: realising those pants are getting baggy; realising
 all your clothes are starting to hang on you; selling said out-shrunk
 clothes at a yard sale, the flea market or online; giving away
 what you can't sell; and buying newer, smaller clothes. It gets
 expensive, yes. But it is worth it. Because, and not to sound
 too much like an ad for hair colouring, you are worth it.
Also,
 four point whatever pounds? That is not nothing. Good on you.

<p>You are so right! One of my new years resolutions this year was
 if something I had in my wardrobe didn't make me feel fabulous,
 I would sell it/give it away. It's been hard work and I can't
 say I've even managed it 50% of the time, but it is an excellent
 mantra to have. Accessories have been my saving this year -
 bangles, necklaces, belts, shoes - can dress up plain black,
 white and other 'block' colours. But it is HARD work. Finding
 the time to try on everything in the shop, and getting more
 and more grumpy when nothing fits the way you want it to. No
 wonder it feels easier to give up and wear sweats. Good luck
 to all of us - all this and trying to lose weight too - no wonder
 no-one wants to tell you how hard this thing really is!

<p>Losing even a small amount of weight encouraged me to start dressing
 better. The first ten pounds felt like 100, it was such a difference
 in my self-esteem. I look at the way I used to dress, and am
 horrified. Looking at me from the outside, I would think "that
 woman has some serious issues" and I'm surprised I did as well
 with my career as I did, looking like that. Now I'm annoyed
 with myself that it took weight loss to change my attitude -
 grateful it happened, but still annoyed - and would encourage
 everyone to start treating themselves well NOW. If nothing else,
 it can only help with the battle to lose weight.

<p>I totally agree with Stacy and Clinton. I see it as the beginnings
 of a great cycle. When you feel good about yourself, you're
 less likely to eat your way out of a depression, and more likely
 to work out and want to keep feeling good about yourself. At
 least, that's been my experience. Even when I was a size 20,
 I tried to have cute clothes and felt like I was making an effort
 and that I looked pretty. 

<p>I've found that if I feel good about how I look (no matter what
 size I am) I don't start thinking, oh well, I'm looking fat
 and feeling fat, lets have a pizza. If I feel good, I choose
 something more healthy and continue to feel good. That self
 perpetuating cycle kind of breaks. 

<p>
It's all about how you feel right now this very second. If what
 you're wearing makes you feel fat, I am straight for the chips
 or similar.

<p>This is a great post that simply says it all.
For the last 2
 long winters, i wore the same 2 skirts, obviously black, and
 pretended i was fine. I had other clothes that would not fit
 me because of the wieght gain, Every morning i would have one
 of those horrible moments you described, i would itch to get
 new clothes then remind myself that i do have ones that I AM
 GOING TO FIT IN SOON. it took me 2 years to realise that soon
 is not good enough.
thanks for sharing.

<p>Alot of interesting comments on this blog, I was searching for
 some doctor related info and some how cam across this site.
 I found it pretty cool, so I bookmarked. I'll really liked the
 second post on the front page, that got my attention.

<p>
My site is in a bit different area, but just as useful. I have
 a weight loss recipe related site focusing on weight loss recipe
 and mens health related topics.

<h>Links to this post:

<h>about and etcetera:

<p>One of those weight loss blogs, except for how I hate the word
 "blog" and this isn't so much about losing weight as not wanting
 to diet, being thirty-something, and just trying to get it -
 where "it" is read as "everything" - right. As long as getting
 it right includes chocolate.


