
URL: http://techupdate.zdnet.com/techupdate/stories/main/0,14179,2913225,00.html
<p>When I interviewed Sun chief engineer Rob Gingell last August,
 he hinted at a blurring of the lines between Linux and Solaris,
 if not an outright merger. Said Gingell: "Five years from now,
 when all the tribes intermarry, who is going to know what's
 Solaris and what's Linux, and who's going to care?" 

<p> So, while attending a recent chalk talk at Sun's Burlington,
 Mass., campus, my ears perked up when the company's chief technology
 officer Greg Papadopolous talked about how applications designed
 to run on Red Hat Linux can run unmodified on the Intel version
 of Sun's Solaris x86. 

<p> As it turns out, this wasn't the news I thought it was. Binaries
 designed to run on Red Hat Linux don't natively run on Solaris
 x86 without some help--yet. Achieving this level of compatibility
 requires a Linux emulator called Lxrun. Lxrun is an open-source
 project that's been around since 1997, and to which Sun has
 contributed engineering resources in order to guarantee its
 compatibility with Solaris x86. (Lxrun does not run on versions
 of Solaris designed for the Sparc architecture.) 

<p> The way Lxrun works is relatively straightforward. First, Solaris
 x86 users install Lxrun on their systems. Depending on which
 distribution of Linux they want to emulate (Red Hat, SuSE, Mandrake,
 et al), they also must load the libraries from that distribution
 into a directory where Lxrun will be looking for them. It is
 indeed possible to write an application that runs on one distribution
 of Linux, but not others. The difference is in the distribution-specific
 libraries and the chance that a developer may or may not take
 advantage of them. (The UnitedLinux movement is an important
 sidebar to this library business that I'll get to shortly.)
 

<p> When Sun's Papadopolous mentioned compatibility with Red Hat
 Linux, almost as if to exclude the other popular distributions,
 it wasn't a slip of the tongue. There has been a lot of speculation
 about which of the many Linux distributions Sun will go with
 when its Linux business is running on all cylinders. Still,
 Papadopolous' comments don't make Red Hat a shoo-in. 

<p> According to Sun's Linux strategy and marketing group manager
 Jack O'Brien, "While we don't distribute Red Hat's libraries
 with the copy of Lxrun that's on the companion CD for Solaris,
 we did make some effort to make sure Lxrun works with them.
 But nothing stops anyone from installing it with other libraries."
 

<p> According to Sun Solaris product manager Chris Baker, once Lxrun
 and the appropriate libraries are loaded onto a Solaris x86
 system, a Linux application doesn't know or care that Solaris
 is running under the hood. All application programming interface
 usage is redirected to the Linux libraries. 

<p> But both Baker and O'Brien discussed other options available
 to Solaris x86 users interested in running Linux applications.
 These options provide some interesting clues to the direction
 that Sun is taking with respect to the marriage of Linux and
 Solaris. 

<p> "Whereas some open source developer might have had Linux in
 mind as a target," said Baker, "nothing prevents a user of some
 other version of Unix from compiling for their platform. The
 question is: What will happen if the developer of that source
 code made calls to some Linux-specific APIs? If the version
 of Unix that you're compiling for can't respond to those calls,
 you will have to adjust the source code to redirect those calls
 to the Unix library that provides the same or similar functionality."
 

<p> To help Solaris users surface any potential library incompatibilities
 when porting Linux applications to Solaris, Sun has a downloadable
 Linux Compatibility Assurance Toolkit (LinCAT). 

<p> Although LinCAT works for both the x86 and Sparc versions of
 Solaris x86, to the extent that LinCAT is more about portability
 than compatibility, Sun is dealing with the compatibility issue
 in other ways. The easiest way to guarantee compatibility of
 the same source code between Linux and Solaris (or any other
 version of Unix) is to make sure that Solaris can respond appropriately
 to applications, even when they make calls to Linux-specific
 APIs. If this could be accomplished for the x86 and Sparc versions
 of Solaris, we would move one giant step closer to the world
 that Gingell described, where the tribes are intermarried and
 no one will "know what's Solaris and what's Linux." 

<p> According to Baker, Sun is on that path now. Slowly but surely,
 Sun is enhancing Solaris with libraries that will respond to
 Linux-specific source code exactly as expected. More germane
 to the future of UnitedLinux, however, is how Sun will measure
 such compatibility with Linux. 

<p> According to O'Brien, "We are striving towards Linux Standards
 Base (LSB) compliance." In almost the same breath, O'Brien warned
 that imprimaturs of UnitedLinux and LSB, such as one might find
 attached to a particular application claiming compliance, don't
 necessarily mean the same thing. In other words, applications
 designed for UnitedLinux-compliance could have compatibility
 issues with non-UnitedLinux-compliant distributions. 

<p> Baker, suggesting that UnitedLinux would eventually become irrelevant,
 said, "Which direction to take was at the core of our deliberations
 for Solaris. We believe, as Red Hat does, that LSB compliance
 is the right thing to do." 

<p> O'Brien concurred. "LSB is the way of the future and is what
 ISVs should be paying attention to." With Sun and Red Hat firmly
 behind LSB, my sense is that UnitedLinux will indeed one day
 be irrelevant. 

<p> To demonstrate Sun's commitment to LSB compliance, O'Brien said,
 "Sun is a participant in the Free Standards Group, which is
 the parent to the LSB project. We've assigned engineering resources
 to it and we'll be promoting it over the long run. Ultimately,
 if you're a Linux application developer and you develop for
 LSB compliance, your application will be guaranteed to run unchanged
 on Solaris as well." 

<p> "That doesn't mean you won't want to take a look at your source
 code and change some of the Linux-specific calls to Solaris
 ones," said O'Brien. "Some parts of Linux are by no means as
 mature as what is in Solaris. The threading model is one example.
 Solaris really shines when it comes to multithreading. It was
 designed from the ground up for multithreaded, multiprocessor
 environments. In the Linux world, that multithreading capability
 is only recently with us, and is still by no means as mature
 as what is in Solaris. There are also other services and functions
 built into Solaris that are more mature--like resource, volume,
 and quality of service management. Not that these aren't available
 on Linux; but you'll need third-party products and will have
 to do some integration work on your own." 

<p> Gingell's five-year plan for an intermarriage of the two operating
 systems seems to be on an accelerated track. Solaris continues
 to take on more API-level compatibility with Linux. In turn,
 Linux, through Sun's participation in the Free Standards Group,
 will undoubtedly take on more of the industrial strength attributes
 for which Solaris has long been known. 

<p> What does this mean in the big picture? With Sun focused on
 an intermarriage of its Unix with Linux, and with IBM having
 already stated that Linux is the successor to its version of
 Unix (AIX), the future is looking very Linux-like. Should Linux
 achieve the cross-vendor compatibility that everybody hoped
 Unix once would, IT managers would face the sort of options
 that the concept of "compliance with standards and competition
 on implementation" is supposed to produce. In that world, the
 various hardware providers (Dell, HP, IBM, Sun, et al) will
 be working extremely hard to convince you that, when it comes
 to powering Linux, their hardware platforms are less costly,
 more secure, and more reliable than the rest. 

<p>How Linux-like is your future looking? Leave a message in ZDNet's
 TalkBack forum or e-mail, me at david.berlind@cnet.com.

<p>TECH UPDATE TODAY DAILY:
 Dan Farber and David Berlind deliver
 daily insights on the business and technology news that matters
 to enterprise IT. 


