<h>Pinterest

<p>What are your guilty pleasure jams? Our Cyclists reveal theirs in today’s post. (

<p>This past week I have been racking my brain trying to figure out an interesting, clever topic to write about. But every time I started to type something of the more serious nature out of no where I hear rhythmic, pulsing, electronic beats, my head starts to bob and all the sudden I have the urge to shout “ Oppa gangnam style “! Â Yes, yes, i know, this video has already gone viral 10 times over (though I know a certain pop-culture “maven” who was only recently acquainted with this K-pop sensation..about 2 months too late, but better late than never right?) but I shamelessly replay this song when I need a jolt in my day that caffeine can no longer provide.  MaybeÂ  my playlistÂ  also includes the likes of Carly Rae Jespsen, Britney Spears, Lady Gaga and Beyonce (one who I will most certainly never be ashamed of looping and replaying!) but I would like to challenge anyone who says they do not have a guilty pleasure pop song in their playlists. Especially those “pseudo-hipster-i-only-play-obscure-indie-bands-no-one-has-heard-of” types too.Â ThatÂ being said, I took this to the team ofThe CycleÂ and collectively we came up with this quick playlist of songs we should be tired of hearing…but you know what? We aren’t! We do love a good jam that we can take a break and dance to.

<p>This is only Part I ofÂ  Cycle Guilty Pleasure Jams, Â more to come later. But, what are some of your guilty pleasure pop songs that are looping in your head? Tweet us your suggestions to make the next playlist @thecyclemsnbc.)

<p>This past week I have been racking my brain trying to figure out an interesting, clever topic to write about. But every time I started to type something of the more serious nature out of no where I hear rhythmic, pulsing, electronic beats, my head starts to bob and all the sudden I have the urge to shout “ Oppa gangnam style “! Â Yes, yes, i know, this video has already gone viral 10 times over (though I know a certain pop-culture “maven” who was only recently acquainted with this K-pop sensation..about 2 months too late, but better late than never right?) but I shamelessly replay this song when I need a jolt in my day that caffeine can no longer provide.

<p>MaybeÂ  my playlistÂ  also includes the likes of Carly Rae Jespsen, Britney Spears, Lady Gaga and Beyonce (one who I will most certainly never be ashamed of looping and replaying!) but I would like to challenge anyone who says they do not have a guilty pleasure pop song in their playlists. Especially those “pseudo-hipster-i-only-play-obscure-indie-bands-no-one-has-heard-of” types too.Â ThatÂ being said, I took this to the team ofThe CycleÂ and collectively we came up with this quick playlist of songs we should be tired of hearing…but you know what? We aren’t! We do love a good jam that we can take a break and dance to.

<p>This is only Part I ofÂ  Cycle Guilty Pleasure Jams, Â more to come later. But, what are some of your guilty pleasure pop songs that are looping in your head? Tweet us your suggestions to make the next playlist @thecyclemsnbc.

<p>Share this with friends

<p>