
URL: http://www.learningsolutions.com/WhitePapers/7KeysRetainTopTalent.html
<p>It is no wonder that in today's aggressive business environment,
 the challenge of sustaining a competitive advantage preoccupies
 the minds of many business leaders. 

<p>Corporate customers and individual consumers have more providers
 to choose from than ever before. Furthermore, they often perceive
 that what they are purchasing is, for all practical purposes,
 a commodity that can be easily obtained from other companies
 if need be.

<p>So how does a corporation distinguish itself in a highly "commoditized"
 and competitive market? Today's businesses are more dependent
 than ever before on their top performers to innovate and provide
 services that differentiate a company from its fierce competitors.
 In other words, corporations are reliant upon their human assets
 to survive and thrive.

<p>However, with unemployment now running at less than 6%, many
 corporations and government agencies are struggling to find
 and keep these valued employees. Changing work force demographics,
 such as the shrinking of the most desirable labor pool (25-34
 year olds) and the negative impact downsizing has had on employee
 loyalty, has led corporate America to search for answers to
 recruiting and retaining the strategic asset of the twenty-first
 century: talented people.

<p>Retaining top talent was less of an issue in the past, but the
 shifting tides of the unspoken employee/employer contract have
 created new currents in the workplace. The old contract asked
 employees to:

<l>work hard

<l>be loyal

<l>give their all

<p>The new contract is substantially different. It states that employees
 must now work harder, doing not only their jobs, but the jobs
 of their former co-workers who were "right-sized." In return,
 job security is extinct, promotions are scarce, salary increases
 are modest at best, and the constant uncertainty of change is
 almost guaranteed. Is it any wonder that employee loyalty is
 on the demise and talented individual contributors and managers
 feel less bonded to their organizations?

<p>Research

<p>We conducted attrition and retention research with our clients,
 and substantiated our findings by reviewing industry practices
 and the behavioral science literature. We uncovered a number
 of critical findings, seven of which are described in this article.
  Because of the sensitive nature of attrition problems, we have
 not identified our clients or other organizations by name in
 this document when citing examples of their retention problems
 or solutions.

<p>1. The Costs of Attrition Can Be Staggering, But Often Unseen

<p>What does it cost an organization when a talented employee defects
 to the competition? Some of the costs factors are obvious, such
 as the productivity losses due to a vacant position. However,
 there are often unseen costs, like the reduced productivity
 from the departing employee who is inevitably distracted during
 his or her job search and therefore contributes less during
 this time period (sometimes called "short-timer's disease").
  

<p>Using conservative calculations, one technical company in California's
 Silicon Valley estimates that it cost them an average of $70,000
 when just one employee leaves. Other companies calculate that
 attrition costs them annual productivity losses of 65-75% in
 the position the employee departs.

<p>Another clients with a national sales force of hundreds estimates
 that they have to scramble to make up for over a million dollars
 of potentially lost sales when just one salesperson leaves.
 To add insult to injury, this does not take into consideration
 the departed employee's attempts to woo his/her past customers
 over to his/her new employer. Multiply these costs by the number
 of employees who leave in a year and the financial impact is
 dramatic.

<p>2. The Reasons Employees Stay Are Not The Same As Why They Leave

<p>Most organizations do not have a handle on the actual reasons
 why employees stay, as well as the actual reasons why they depart.
 Many organizations attempt to capture the causes of attrition
 through standard exit interviews. Unfortunately, traditional
 exit interviews just scratch the surface of the causes for attrition.
 They inevitably fail to differentiate between factors that make
 the new job attractive to the departing employee, versus the
 reasons why the employee was prompted to consider leaving his
 or her current job in the first place.

<p>For example, many employees report "better compensation" as one
 of their main reasons for leaving. In many cases, our research
 revealed that these same employees were not, in fact, originally
 dissatisfied with their compensation. Instead, other reasons
 prompted them to consider leaving their current job, such as
 the absence of professional development opportunities. However,
 they often do not report these negative reasons associated with
 their old job (possibly for fear of retribution), but instead
 report what is attractive in the new job. Because of this phenomenon,
 organizational data from typical exit interviews fails to surface
 the real causes of an organization's attrition problems.

<p>This is also true when an employee is actively recruited by the
 competition. Our work in retention shows that attractive candidates
 receive calls from recruiters all of the time! If this is so,
 what causes the sudden shift that makes the employee act on
 a recruiter's call at a particular point in time? We consistently
 found in these circumstances that something deteriorated in
 their work situations that caused them to take the current recruiter's
 call more seriously.

<p>Obviously, when organizations unknowingly misdiagnose the situation
 and fail to surface the most critical factors that contribute
 to attrition, their solutions to correct the problem fall short
 of the mark. The result is a bad diagnosis leading to improper
 prescriptions.

<p>3. The Manager's Role in Attrition Is Paramount But Underplayed

<p>Most managers we interviewed as part of our research in retention
 lamented the loss of talented contributors. However, when asked
 to diagnose the reasons for an employee's departure, the average
 manager pointed to a variety of external organizational factors
 as the causes of attrition, failing to take any personal responsibility
 for the situation. They typically did not acknowledge any factors
 within their control that contributed to the employee's departure.

<p>For example, managers often attributed attrition problems to
 such factors as compensation. Certain factors that are the responsibility
 of "the overall corporation" can certainly aggravate attrition
 if they are not in order, such as inequitable pay scales or
 excessively rigid policies that dilute employee autonomy. However,
 we discovered that a large number of factors contributing to
 employee retention are within the manager's circle of influence.

<p>Therefore, the results of any attrition intervention are dependent
 upon the organization's ability to provide managers with an
 awareness of those factors, as well as tools to help them meet
 their personal accountability in retaining top talent.

<p>Furthermore, managers need this guidance more than ever before.
 The managers' span of control has been widening in most companies
 over the past several years, and the number of times the manager
 'touches" the employee is therefore less frequent. Each contact
 must maximize any opportunity to influence employee motivation
 and commitment.

<p>4. Prevention Is The Best Medicine

<p>The loss of key employees, even in small numbers, can be devastating
 to a company. (This points to the importance of tracking not
 just overall attrition ratios, but also tracking the level of
 performers leaving.)

<p>Consequently, we were interested in determining the degree to
 which managers rank retention as a high on-going priority. Not
 surprisingly, we found that the only time the average manager
 thinks about retention is when she or he receives a resignation
 from an employee. We also found that most managers predictably
 attempt to talk departing employees out of leaving, trying to
 convince them that they are making a mistake.

<p>However, also predictably, we found that the vast majority of
 the time, these employees leave their resignations on the table,
 resisting attempts to persuade them to stay. And, in the infrequent
 situation when a manager successfully persuades the employee
 to remain, he or she often leaves within six to nine months
 anyway. (The exception is when there is a clear salary inequity
 which is remedied, and the employee is satisfied with everything
 else about the work situation.)

<p>Clearly, the solution lies in tying retention to critical business
 activities so that managers do not think about retention after
 the fact, when it is too late, but rather see it as integral
 to business success and survival. Treating retention as an on-going
 priority enables the manager to focus on proactive measures
 to sustain long term employee commitment rather than on reactive
 attempts to reverse surprise resignations.

<p>5. Retention Has An Often Unrecognized Impact on the Customer

<p>Managers are well aware of the impact on their function when
 a valued employee leaves. However, even managers of customer
 contact functions, such as sales or customer service, often
 fail to demonstrate a sensitivity to the impact attrition has
 on customers.

<p>When key employees leave customer contact functions, customers
 often experience:

<l>a discontinuity in the relationship

<l>a negative impact on their own productivity

<l>time wasted reorienting the new employee to their operation and
 the way they work

<p>When the relationship represents a value-added partnership, the
 change in account managers or service providers can set the
 relationship back months and give competitors a weighty advantage.
 This is especially true if the transition to new account personnel
 is not well managed. At a certain point, regular changes in
 account personnel can send a message of organizational instability
 and create the impression that the organization does not care
 about the account relationship.

<p>In the case of development or support functions, we also found
 a general lack of awareness on the manager's part of the negative
 impact the departing employee has on internal customers. The
 departure of a top performing employee can therefore have a
 "ripple effect" on the organization and its clients that creates
 problems for months.

<p>6. Misguided Thinking - "Attrition is Inevitable"

<p>It is true that some level of attrition is unavoidable. In fact,
 a certain degree of attrition is desirable in order to compensate
 for poor hiring decisions. However, human resource and senior
 line managers often question whether they can really increase
 their retention ratios.

<p>The answer is definitively yes, with evidence to support it.
 In one of our client organizations, the attrition rate for one
 of their divisions in 1995, prior to our intervention, was 18.5%,
 with 25% attrition in one of the most critical occupation groups.
 After working with us in 1996 and making retention a priority
 for every manager, the attrition rate dropped to 11.7% overall
 and 15% in the critical group.

<p>One might predict that other factors contributed to this outcome.
 In fact, it should be noted that there were actually reductions
 in employee compensation during this time, which should have
 increased attrition. Nevertheless, we still saw an increase
 in retention rates.

<p>Another client asked that we conduct a retention risk analysis
 and intervention in a critical technical division because the
 organization feared that attrition would rise in the near future.
 Two interesting findings emerged from our research with this
 group. The first was that this division was already following
 a number of the retention prescriptions we provide our clients
 (one of the few divisions in the entire company to do so). More
 striking, however, was the fact that as a result of following
 these prescriptions, this group's retention rates were over
 10% higher than the rest of the company's, thus validating the
 efficacy of our model.

<p>Another company in the Northwest began with an attrition rate
 of 17%. After following the same prescriptions, they reduced
 their attrition rate to 3%, bringing their retention rate up
 to 97%. As the evidence suggests, attrition is not an unbeatable
 foe. Instead, it is a challenge that can be overcome with the
 right strategies and tools.

<p>7. World Class Retention Reflects A Multi-Factored Solution

<p>The scenario in many organizations is the same. Someone, such
 as a senior line manager or HR professional who is tied to the
 business, raises the red flag of attrition, recognizing it's
 potentially devastating impact on the company's strategic position.
 Then, someone scrambles to pull some sort of training or tools
 together which focuses on only a few (but not all) of the factors
 that are required to reduce attrition. The result is the organization
 experiences mediocre results, or no results at all.

<p>This multi-factored retention solution is like the story of the
 blind men and the elephant. Never having seen an elephant, three
 blind men were brought over to a young elephant to let them
 experience it. Each man touched a part of the elephant. The
 first one touched a leg and said, "Now I understand. An elephant
 is like a tree trunk." The second man touched the tail and said,
 "No. You are wrong. An elephant is like a snake." The third
 man touched an ear and said, "You are both quite mistaken. An
 elephant is like the leaf of a big palm tree."

<p>If any of the men wanted to control the elephant, they would
 have found themselves incapable of doing so, because their understanding
 of the elephant was only partial. This is also true of many
 organizations that try to tackle only one factor of the attrition
 dilemma.

<p>One piece of anecdotal evidence comes from a report made by one
 of the nation's leading financial services companies. In an
 attempt to stem the outflow of critical managers and individual
 contributors, they contracted with a reputable training firm
 with whom they had worked successfully in the past. While the
 firm admitted they were not experts in employee retention, they
 nevertheless conducted sessions for senior managers, hoping
 to help their client to deal effectively with the problem.

<p>Unfortunately, but also predictably, the firm addressed only
 a fragment of the retention solution. The kick back from the
 managers was strong, since they intuitively sensed this was
 only a partial solution and it would not effectively address
 their issues. Therefore, one litmus test for a retention solution
 is to assess its scope and depth. Any solution that is one-dimensional
 is bound to fail.

<p>Conclusion

<p>Interestingly enough, organizational experts predicted that mergers
 and downsizing would result in employees who felt lucky to have
 a job and who would, of course, stay. This may be true for employees
 in the lower tiers of performance. However, top talented employees
 recognize they represent a valued organizational asset. When
 their loyalty deteriorates, the tendency to switch organizations
 increases.

<p>The average costs of replacing today's defecting work force is
 eating away at the profitability of even the healthiest organizations.
 Even when the bottom line remains intact, the loss of just a
 handful of key employees who have a special expertise or who
 maintain valued customer relationships can shake an organization
 to it's roots. In this age of high stakes and unpredictable
 market and organizational changes, organizations must educate
 their managers and create an environment where today's top talent
 can thrive. The alternative is unacceptable.

<p>To schedule a program, have a free initial consultation about
 your project, or to learn more about how LSA can contribute
 to your business success, please call us at 800-889-6452, 408-727-2332,
 or click here to tell us what you need, or click here to send
 an e-mail. We appreciate your interest and will get back to
 you promptly.  

<p>Copyright © 2004  Learning Alliance Corporation DBA Learning
 Solutions Alliance.
 All Rights Reserved. All copyrights, trademarks,
 service marks and product names presented in this web site are
 copyrights,
 trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks
 of Learning Alliance Corporation DBA Learning Solutions Alliance,
 or its Partners.



