
URL: http://www.lonesentry.com/articles/officercorps
<p>Photos, Articles, &amp; Research on the European Theater in World
 War II  "Red Army Officers' Corps" from Intelligence Bulletin

<p> 

<p>Report on the restoration of the Red Army Officers' Corps in
 WWII, from the Intelligence Bulletin, March 1946. 

<p>[Editor's Note: The following article is wartime or postwar information
 on foreign militaries published for Allied soldiers. More accurate
 data on foreign militaries is available in postwar publications.]

<p>  

<p>  

<p>RED ARMY OFFICERS' CORPSDecrees Revive Once-Hated Traditions

<p> The Communist Party and the Soviet Government have recently
 taken several steps to increase the attractiveness of a postwar
 career for officers in the Red Army. These innovations, in drastic
 contrast to the avoidance of special privilege in the Revolutionary
 period, officially restore the traditional prestige and prerogatives
 of the Russian officers' corps. The officers' corps, once the
 symbol of despised Czarist oppression, has been gradually revived
 until today it is imbued with both old and new Russian fighting
 tradition, and enjoys a firmly rooted authority based on wartime
 success and the adulation of the government and the people.
 

<p> In order to "free officers from personal and economic preoccupations,"
 staff orderlies are now provided for all general officers and
 colonels, even those on the retired list. The new decree likewise
 authorizes increased rations of free food and exemptions from
 war taxes for the officers' corps. Previously, it was announced
 that separate Red Army officers' clubs were being built in military
 districts and at garrison posts because "under present conditions
 of cultural enlightenment it is necessary to have sharp differentiation
 and separation between officers and enlisted men." Last spring,
 plans to construct special apartment houses for officers and
 their families were announced. 

<p> Although uniform regulations kept officers looking pretty much
 like enlisted men, prior to the war Red Army officers had already
 gone far in rank differentiation. These prewar uniforms may
 be cut like those of enlisted men, but the boots are of good
 soft leather, the breeches of blue surge, and the tunics of
 quality OD wool. 

<p> These changes are a far cry from the treatment received by officers
 in the Red Army during the early days of the Soviet Union. During
 and after the Revolution in the winter of 1917-18, all ranks
 and grades were abolished, and there existed only two formal
 and nonpermanent categories&mdash;rank and file, and commanders.
 The commanders were distinguished from their men by no insignia
 other than a small mark on their sleeves (later by a collar
 tab pip), and the differences between their dress, pay, and
 treatment were correspondingly small. Socially, all Red Army
 men were on the same level. This entire program reflected the
 popular revulsion on the part of both the people and the members
 of the armed forces against the tradition of oppression of the
 old Czarist officers. 

<p> In the first days of the Revolution, officers were subject to
 deposition and arrest at the hands of soldiers' committees formed
 in their units. Off-duty saluting and standing at attention
 were abolished by the First Order of the Petrograd soviet on
 14 March 1917. Even the election of officers was seriously discussed,
 and in order to assure the political reliability of the ex-Czarist
 commanding personnel, a system of political commissars was instituted
 in 1917. The political commissars exercised stringent control
 over commanders during the Civil War. (The commissars alternately
 lost and regained the power of veto of command decisions until
 1942, when they were absorbed into the regular officers' corps.)
 

<p> Under the new regulations, officers have really gone to town.
 This Cossack in field uniform not only wears the re-adopted
 Czarist-type shoulder boards, but has other traditional gear
 formerly taboo. Note the beard, the Cossack hat, the Cossack
 saber and knife. He may wear a Cossack cape and scarf-hood bashlik.
 

<p> So equalitarian was the spirit of the Soviet armed forces that
 the very word "officer" was abolished from the Soviet vocabulary
 in 1918 as a hateful reminder of Czarist times. Instead, officers
 were referred to as company, division, and other unit commanders.
 External political conditions and the disappearance of pre-revolutionary
 classes in Russia gradually brought about a change in the position
 of Red Army officers. During the 1920's unit commanders ate
 at the same mess as their men and shared the Red Army clubs
 with them. Pay and living quarters were usually poor. 

<p> Revival of the officers' corps was started inauspiciously by
 the Decree of September 1935, at which time it was believed
 advisable to revive the prestige of the army and the authority
 of the commanders. Regulations were passed restoring the familiar
 designations of the lower grades, reviving the rank of marshal,
 and granting substantial increases in pay. The decree reestablished
 individual ranks for commanders. This decree was designed to
 insure the steady growth of the commanders as a group, to improve
 their relative standing, to give incentive to greater effort,
 to reward loyal service, and in particular to reinforce their
 power and authority. The decree established service as an officer
 in the Red Army as a lifelong profession, and fixed definite
 terms of service for the various ranks, providing appropriate
 distinguishing uniforms and insignia. 

<p> The purge of the Red Army in 1937 indicated that the officer
 class was not considered completely reliable. By 1940, however,
 the salute became obligatory on all occasions, and the rank
 of general was reintroduced. 

<p> Infantry officers in the field still follow an almost world-wide
 practice of dressing and appearing pretty much like their men.
 The officer in this group is the lieutenant with the medals
 (center). He wears a G.I. cap and enlisted man's pocketless
 tunic; only his shoulder insignia and Sam Browne belt distinguish
 him. 

<p> The outbreak of the war with Germany showed the need for insuring
 the loyalty of the officer class to the government, as well
 as for increasing the respect and obedience shown to commanders
 by their men. Determined efforts were made to increase the number
 of Party members in the rapidly expanding officers' corps. Distinctions
 of rank were emphasized progressively. The political commissars
 again lost their veto power in 1942 and officers received many
 privileges, such as special discounts in state stores; separate
 stores were established for those of high rank. 

<p> Not until the reintroduction of the pre-revolutionary stiff
 shoulder boards (pognoy) in January 1943 was a separate classification
 of commanders revived, along with new and more resplendent uniforms
 and other accouterments reminiscent of the old days. The Decree
 of July 1943 finally granted the once-despised title of "officer"
 to Red Army commanders, and officially and for the first time
 in Soviet history established a distinct "officers' corps."
 Other steps were taken to increase the distinction between officers
 and enlisted men. Differences in pay and treatment rapidly increased,
 and today the annual pay of a private is 600 rubles, while that
 of a lieutenant is 7,700 rubles, or almost 13 times as much.
 

<p> Since the Decree of July 1943 and subsequent measures, the glamour
 and prestige of the Soviet officers' corps has been confirmed
 in practice and by decree. The corps is firmly established,
 conscious of its dignity and special status, and proud of its
 traditions. As in the American and other armies, the Red Army
 officers' corps includes large numbers of men recently risen
 from the ranks and drawn from civil life. The Soviet press,
 radio, and movies have popularized and glorified the Soviet
 officer in the minds of the civilian population. 

<p> The uniforms decreed in 1943 (of which this is service dress)
 strongly mark the difference between officers and men, and are
 quite gaudy. The edges of this coat collar and front are piped
 in the officer's arm color (here red); his dress epaulets have
 a gold base with red piping. His dress uniform would be even
 more colorful. 

<p> The recent legislation concerning orderlies and officers' clubs
 has for the most part legalized practices that grew up during
 the war. 

<p> In the early days of the war the recognition granted to officers
 was primarily designed to strengthen their authority. Now, Soviet
 policy has the avowed purpose of maintaining a strong army and
 improving the quality of the officers' corps. In this connection
 the opening of the Suvorov Schools, primarily for the children
 of Red Army men killed in battle, was a significant development
 in 1943. These military schools, which are directly comparable
 to the Czarist Cadet Schools, will graduate each year approximately
 5,000 youths whose education since their 10th year has been
 largely military. Thus, it should be possible to select the
 majority of career officer candidates from Suvorov School students.
 

<p> The army of the U.S.S.R. dates its origin from 1918, but it
 is deeply proud and aware of the military laurels which have
 in the past graced Russian arms. Soviet officers are expected
 to be familiar not only with World War II triumphs but with
 the campaigns and strategic principles of pre-Soviet heroes.
 Marshal Stalin told the Red Army on 7 November 1941: "Let the
 manly images of our great ancestors&mdash;Aleksandr Nevski,
 Dmitri Donskoi, Kuzma Minin, Dmitri Pozharski, Aleksandr Suvorov,
 Mikhail Kutyzov&mdash;inspire you in this war." 
 



