
URL: http://www.lupus.org/education/faq.html
<p>1. What is lupus?
     - What does autoimmune mean?
     - What
 is inflammation? 
     - What happens in autoimmune diseases
 like lupus? 
     - Where did the name come from?
     - Who
 gets lupus? 
     - What are the symptoms of lupus?2. Different
 kinds of lupus3. Can you catch lupus?4. Is lupus a fatal disease?

    - Death in lupus, what is it due to?5. Cancer
     - Is lupus
 a form of cancer?
     - Are people with lupus more likely to
 develop cancer?
     - Cancer treatment in lupus, any special
 considerations?6. AIDS and lupus, are they alike?7. Lupus anticoagulant

     - Does the lupus anticoagulant mean I have lupus?
     -
 Can you have antiphospholipid antibodies and not lupus?
   
  - Can you have antiphospholipid antibodies and not have related

       symptoms?8. MS and lupus
     - MRI findings in CNS lupus9.
 Childhood lupus, prognosis

<p>17. What causes lupus?18. Is it hereditary?
     - Where is genetic
 research being done?19. Can I have my children tested?20. What
 can trigger lupus?
     - Is stress related?
     - Are flares
 related to hormones?
     - Are there medications to avoid?
 
     - Does it occur more often in certain geographical areas?

     - Is lupus related to pollution or toxic chemicals? 
  
   - Does something in the diet cause lupus?21. Silicone breast
 implants
     - Any connection with lupus?
     - If removed,
 will my symptoms improve?22. Aspartame- artificial sweetener

<p>DIAGNOSIS

<p>23. Is there a test for systemic lupus?24. Why is SLE so difficult
 to diagnose?
     - How is it diagnosed?
     - The ANA test
 - used as a screening test25. Confusion about diagnosis
   
  - I have all the symptoms, but the Dr. says it is not lupus!

     - Early as possible diagnosis 
     - Can anything be prescribed
 to relieve the pain if I'm not diagnosed
     - Borderline ANA

     - Positive ANA, not lupus, but a CONNECTIVE TISSUE disease

     - Negative ANA, not lupus, can I have lupus and a negative
 ANA?
     - What kind of doctor can diagnose lupus?
     - If
 I am in the process of developing lupus, can I do anything to
 slow its
       development?
     - Positive ANA and fibromyalgia
 

<p>LIVING WITH LUPUS

<p>26. I have lupus. Are there any do's or don'ts regarding:
  
   - Diet
     - Vitamins
     - Exercise
     - Fatigue
   
  - Sleep
     - Medications
     - Work schedule27. How to recognize
 a flare
     - When to call the doctor
     - Flare, how long
 will it last?
     - Persistent flare without a remission28.
 What can I expect in the future? Will I:
     - Be able to have
 a family?
     - Be able to continue working full-time?
   
  - Live long enough to see my children grow up? 
     - Become
 crippled and end up in a wheelchair? 29. Pain management30.
 Dental Fillings31. Hair dyes32. Can lupus cause memory problems?

<p>39. Research
     - Is there any research being done on lupus?

     - Where is research being done?
     - Where does the NIAMS
 lupus research take place?
     - What do we now know as a result
 of NIAMS supported research?
     - Are there any studies on
 the use of estrogen in lupus?
     - NIAMS Registries for Lupus
 and Lupus Related Conditions
     - NIAMS/NIH budget information
 
     - Does the Lupus Foundation of America do research?
 
    - How do I find out more about the LFA's Research Grant program?

     - How close are we to a cure? 

<p>If you have questions that are not covered here or elsewhere
 in this site, Contact LFA

<p>FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT LUPUS

<p>1. What is lupus? 

<p>
 Lupus is a chronic (long-lasting) autoimmune disease in which
 the immune system, for unknown reasons, becomes hyperactive
 and attacks normal tissue. This attack results in inflammation
 and brings about symptoms. 

<p>What does autoimmune mean? 
 Literally it means immune activity
 directed against the self. The immune system fights the body
 itself (Auto=self). In autoimmune diseases, the immune system
 makes a mistake and reacts to the body's own tissues. 

<p>What is inflammation? 
 Literally it means setting on fire. It
 is a protective process our body uses when tissues are injured.
 Inflammation helps to eliminate a foreign body or organism (virus,
 bacteria) and prevent further injury. Signs of inflammation
 include; swelling, redness, pain and warmth. If the signs of
 inflammation are long lasting, as they can be in lupus, then
 damage to the tissues can occur and normal function is impaired.
 This is why the treatment of lupus is aimed at reducing the
 inflammation. Reference: see Facts & Overview, What is Lupus?
 

<p>What happens in autoimmune diseases like lupus? 
 The immune
 system is designed to protect and defend the body from foreign
 intruders (bacteria, viruses). You can think of it like a security
 system for your body. It contains several different types of
 cells, some of which function like "security guards" and are
 constantly on patrol looking for any foreign invaders. When
 they spot one, they take action, and eliminate the intruder.
 In lupus, for some reason and we don't know why, the immune
 system loses its ability to tell the difference between a foreign
 intruder and a person's own normal tissues and cells. So, in
 essence, the "Security Guards" make a mistake, and they mistakenly
 identify the person's own normal cells as foreign (antigens),
 and then take action to eliminate them. Part of their response
 is to bring antibodies to the site that then attach to antigens
 (anything that the immune system recognizes as non-self or foreign)
 and form immune complexes. These immune complexes help to set
 in motion a series of events that result in inflammation at
 the site. These immune complexes may travel through the circulation
 (blood) and lodge in distant tissues and cause inflammation
 there. 

<p>Where did the name come from?
 Lupus is the Latin word for wolf.
 The term has been associated with the disease since the 10th
 century, though the reasons are unclear. Erythematosus means
 redness. It is speculated that the name was given to describe
 the skin lesions (sores), which typically are red and perhaps
 at that time in history were thought to resemble the bite of
 a wolf. Today we know that not everyone with lupus has rashes
 or skin lesions, and those who do would not say their rashes
 look anything like a wolf bite. 

<p>Who gets lupus?
 Lupus can occur at any age, and in either sex.
 Nine out of ten people with lupus are women. During the childbearing
 years (ages 15-44) lupus strikes women 10-15 times more frequently
 than men. 

<p>
 People of all races can have lupus; however, African American
 women have a three times higher incidence (number of new cases)
 and mortality than Caucasian women. They tend to develop the
 disease at a younger age and to develop more serious complications.
 Lupus is also more common in women of Hispanic, Asian, and Native
 American descent. 

<p>
 The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and
 Skin Diseases (NIAMS) has developed a strategic plan for reducing
 health disparities. Lupus is included as an area of research
 focus. Further information on disparities in lupus and the strategic
 plan is available at: http://www.niams.nih.gov/an/stratplan/stratplan.htm

<p>What are the symptoms of lupus? Symptoms of lupus vary widely
 depending on the individual case and the form of lupus present.
 Most people with lupus do not experience all of these symptoms.
 The list only serves to alert people to clues that might indicate
 the presence of lupus in an undiagnosed person. 

<l> Achy or swollen joints 

<l>Persistent fever over 100 degrees 

<l> Prolonged, extreme fatigue 

<l> Skin rashes, including a butterfly shaped rash across the cheeks
 and nose 

<p>2. Are there different kinds of lupus? 
 There are four forms
 of lupus including: 
 Cutaneous lupus erythematosus affects
 the skin. There are many different types of cutaneous lupus
 including: 

<p>Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) attacks multiple systems in
 the body which may include: the skin, joints, lungs, blood,
 blood vessels, heart, kidneys, liver, brain and the nervous
 system.
 See Facts & Overview: What is Lupus?

<p>Drug-induced lupus may develop after taking certain prescription
 medications. Symptoms generally disappear, within weeks to months,
 after the drug is discontinued.
 See brochure: Drug-Induced
 Lupus Erythematosus

<p>Neonatal lupus, a fourth type, is a rare condition. It is not
 the same thing as SLE. See FAQ 39 - Research.
 Resource: "Lupus
 and Pregnancy" by T. Flint Porter, MD, MPH and D. Ware Branch,
 MD. Lupus News, Vol. 20, No. 5, Winter 2000. 
 Reference: see
 Facts & Overview, Types of Lupus

<p>Lupus in Overlap
 The majority of people with lupus have lupus
 alone. Between five and thirty percent of people with lupus
 report having overlap symptoms characteristic of one or more
 connective tissue diseases. There are several well-recognized
 overlaps that may affect people with lupus including: lupus
 and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), lupus and myositis, lupus and
 systemic sclerosis (SSc or scleroderma), lupus and Sjogren's
 syndrome (SS).
 Reference: see brochure, Lupus In 'Overlap'
 With Other Connective Tissue Diseases

<p>4. Is lupus a fatal disease?
 Lupus is not a universally fatal
 disease. In fact, today with close follow-up and treatment,
 80-90% of the people with lupus can expect to live a normal
 life span. Lupus does vary in intensity and degree, however,
 and there are people who have a mild case, there are those who
 have a moderate case and there are some who have a severe case
 of lupus, which tends to be more difficult to treat and bring
 under control. For people who have a severe flare-up, there
 is a greater chance that their lupus may be life-threatening.
 We know that some people do die of this disease and because
 of that we have a tremendous amount of respect for the potential
 of this disease. However, the majority of people living with
 lupus today can expect to live a normal lifespan. 

<p>
 People frequently read in the literature that, 80-90% of people
 with lupus live for more than ten years. Unfortunately, this
 is often misinterpreted as- people with lupus live for only
 ten years. Let us clarify this. 

<p>
 It is important to understand that the "10 years" does not
 represent the number of years the person will live, but rather
 the number of years involved in the study. The studies followed
 patients with lupus from the time of diagnosis for a period
 of ten years. At the end of this research period they were able
 to conclude that 80-90% of the people enrolled were still alive.
 What this study did not look at is what happened in year 11,
 12, 15, 20 and so on. We know there are many people who have
 been living with lupus for 15, 19, 25, 30 and 40 years. This
 is not a disease that is universally fatal to all. The majority
 of people with lupus today can expect to live a normal lifespan.
 

<p>When people die of lupus, what do they usually die of?
 Overwhelming
 infection and kidney failure are the two most common causes
 of death in people with lupus. 

<p>5. Lupus and cancer  Is lupus a form of cancer? 
 No, lupus is
 not a form of cancer. It is an autoimmune disease. 

<p>Are people with lupus more likely to develop cancers?
 People
 with lupus are no more likely to develop cancer than are people
 in the general population. However, people who have received
 certain chemotherapy drugs do carry the added risk of developing
 cancer sometime later in life. 

<p>Are there any special considerations regarding treatment of cancer
 in people with lupus? Cancer can be treated in many ways; with
 surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy. All people with lupus
 who have surgery for cancer, should be followed closely by their
 personal physician and/or the rheumatologist to evaluate the
 activity of their lupus throughout the course. For patients
 receiving steroid therapy and surgical procedures, their steroid
 dosage will have to be adjusted during the time just shortly
 before surgery and then tapered slowly over time after surgery.
 If a person is scheduled for surgery and they take non-steroidal
 anti-inflammatory drugs or aspirin, any of which may effect
 their clotting time, these medications will need to be stopped
 prior to surgery in order to minimize bleeding. 

<p>
 Chemotherapy usually doesn't present any particular problems
 and can in turn treat active lupus. 

<p>6. Is lupus like AIDS?
 No. In AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency
 Syndrome) the immune system is under active; it is deficient.
 In lupus the immune system is overactive, producing large quantities
 of antibodies. AIDS is contagious but lupus is not. The majority
 of people diagnosed with AIDS die from their disease whereas
 the majority of people with lupus can expect to live a normal
 lifespan. 

<p>I was just diagnosed with the lupus anticoagulant. Does this
 mean I have systemic lupus?
 The lupus anticoagulant is classified
 as a type of antiphospholipid antibody that was first detected
 in people with lupus. It was later learned that many people
 who do not have lupus, also produce these antibodies. In fact,
 according to most studies, greater than 50% of the people who
 have antiphospolipid antibodies, DO NOT have lupus. So, just
 because a person has the lupus anticoagulant antibodies does
 not necessarily mean that they have or will develop systemic
 lupus. 

<p>
 There is a syndrome called the "Primary" Antiphospholipid Syndrome
 (PAPS). This term is used to describe people who do not have
 any signs or symptoms of SLE but produce antiphospholipid antibodies
 such as the lupus anticoagulant and/or anti-cardiolipin antibodies
 and experience problems with blood clots, miscarriages, or thrombocytopenia
 (low platelets). People with PAPS do not have lupus. 
 References:
 see brochures, Blood Disorders in Lupus, and Antiphospholipid
 Antibodies and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus 

<p>Is it possible to have antiphospholipid antibodies and not have
 systemic lupus?
 Yes. Although these antibodies were first discovered
 in people who had lupus, it was later learned there are many
 people who produce these antibodies who do not have systemic
 lupus. 
 References: see brochures, Blood Disorders in Lupus,
 and Antiphospholipid Antibodies and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus

 Is it possible to have antiphospholipid antibodies and not have
 symptoms related to them, i.e. blood clots, miscarriages or
 low platelets?
 Yes. In fact, most people with these antibodies
 DO NOT and will not have symptoms related to them. 

<p>I was diagnosed with MS 3 years ago and now my doctor thinks
 I may have lupus. Is there a connection between MS and lupus?
 
 Multiple Sclerosis and lupus are both autoimmune diseases.
 They are diagnosed and treated in very different ways. There
 is no direct connection between the two, however, lupus, known
 as a great imposter, can sometimes mimic or imitate the symptoms
 of MS. 
 Reference: see brochure, Systemic Lupus and the Nervous
 System

<p>My MRI from 3 years ago showed plaques. Is there anything on
 the MRI of people with lupus of the nervous system that is diagnostic
 for CNS lupus? 
 Diagnosis of CNS lupus is difficult as there
 is not one specific diagnostic test to detect nervous system
 involvement in lupus. The abnormalities seen on the MRI scans
 are not specific for systemic lupus. In other words, they could
 be due to a number of things. The findings on these specialized
 tests and sometimes other tests such as a brain wave test (electroencephalogram,
 EEG) and a spinal tap have to be considered along with clinical
 and laboratory findings in establishing a diagnosis of CNS lupus.
 Reference: see brochure, Systemic Lupus and the Nervous System

<p>9. My child has lupus. What is the prognosis? 
 The prognosis
 for children and adolescents with systemic lupus has improved
 dramatically over the past twenty years. With modern therapy,
 children do nearly as well as adults.
 References: see brochure,
 Childhood Lupus and Contact the LFA for articles on childhood
 lupus. 

<p>10. What are the symptoms of cutaneous lupus? 
 The symptoms
 of cutaneous lupus may include a variety of different looking
 skin rashes, photosensitivity (where exposure to ultra-violet
 light triggers a rash), and sometimes ulcers on the inside of
 the nose or mouth. 
 Reference: see brochure, Skin Disease and
 Lupus

<p>What do the rashes look like? 
 There are a variety of ways that
 cutaneous lupus rashes can appear. The distinctive rash is called
 the "butterfly rash," which is a rash that extends across the
 cheeks of the face and the bridge of the nose. It can be flat
 or raised; it can be bright red or it can be just a mild blushing,
 light pink coloration to the skin. It appears on the face in
 a pattern that looks like a butterfly; the wings are beneath
 both eyes and the body of the butterfly covers the bridge of
 the nose. Here is one example of what a butterfly rash may look
 like. (Photo source: Dept. of Dermatology, University of Iowa)
 

<p>
 Another classic rash found in cutaneous lupus is the discoid
 rash. This rash is coin-shaped or oval in shape, like a disk
 and it is seen on areas of the skin that are exposed to sunlight.
 Discoid lesions (sores) tend to be red and raised and become
 scaly. When they heal they can leave behind a scar. These rashes
 can also result in a change in coloring of the skin, making
 the area around the lesion either lighter or darker in color.
 These discoid lesions may appear on the scalp; on the face in
 a butterfly distribution; or, as mentioned earlier, in areas
 where the skin receives sun exposure, especially, for example,
 the V of the neck. Discoid lupus erythematosus (LE) lesions
 are usually painless and typically do not itch. Here is one
 example of what a discoid rash may look like. (Photo source:
 Dermatology Information System, Dermis.net)

<p>Chronic cutaneous lupus may also appear in different forms including:
 

<l> verrucous (wart-like) discoid LE 

<l> lupus tumidus - elevated areas of red skin with no scale or
 scarring 

<l> lupus profundus - discoid skin lesions in conjunction with panniculitis
 

<l> palmar-plantar erosive discoid LE - discoid lesions on the hands
 and feet  Another type of lupus skin rash is classified as the
 subacute cutaneous lesions. These are lesions characterized
 by redness. They are also coin-shaped, very photosensitive and
 they get worse when exposed to ultra-violet light. These are
 lesions that do not leave behind scars, and can appear over
 large areas of the body. People who have subacute cutaneous
 lupus erythematosus (SCLE-a subset of cutaneous lupus) may experience
 systemic symptoms such as: 

<l> muscle and joint pain, 

<l>fever and 

<l> general discomfort. 

<l> Serious kidney or nervous system problems are rare. 

<p> These are just a few examples of what cutaneous lupus rashes
 may look like. Because the appearance of skin rashes in lupus
 can be quite variable, it can be difficult to diagnose just
 by looking at the lesion, and therefore other tests may be necessary.
 
 Reference: "The Skin In Lupus," by Richard D. Sontheimer,
 M.D. & Thomas T. Provost, M.D. Lupus News, Volume 18, Number
 2, Spring 1998. 

<p>How is cutaneous lupus diagnosed? 
 Cutaneous lupus, because
 of the great deal of variability in the way that the skin rashes
 may appear, can be quite difficult to diagnose. However, a skin
 biopsy may be performed and this may be diagnostic. 

<p>What kind of Doctor specializes in cutaneous lupus? 
 A dermatologist
 specializes in diseases of the skin, hair and nails. Cutaneous
 lupus is one of hundreds of diseases that involve these areas.
 

<p>How is cutaneous lupus treated? 
 Treatment of cutaneous lupus
 may include corticosteroid creams or ointments applied to the
 rash or lesions. If the lesion does not respond to cream or
 ointment, the doctor may prescribe injections of corticosteroids
 directly into the lesion. If a person has particularly widespread
 lesions, oral corticosteroid medications may be prescribed or
 the doctor may prescribe anti-malarial medications such as Plaquenil
 (hydroxychloroquine). 

<p>
 In addition to these medications, sunscreens are an important
 part of the prevention of photosensitivity (where skin exposed
 to ultra-violet light reacts by developing a rash) reactions
 that may occur with cutaneous lupus lesions. 
 Reference: see
 brochure: Skin Disease in Lupus. 

<p>11. How is cutaneous lupus different from systemic lupus? 
 Cutaneous
 lupus is confined to the skin, whereas systemic lupus may involve
 not only the skin but any of the other organ systems in the
 body. 

<p>Can cutaneous lupus turn into systemic lupus? 
 In approximately
 10% of the cases of cutaneous lupus, it evolves and develops
 into systemic lupus. However, this can't be predicted or prevented
 from happening. 
 References: see brochures, Skin Disease in
 Lupus, and What is Lupus?

<p>12. I have hair loss due to several scars on my scalp. All are
 about the size of silver dollars. Is there anything to help
 this kind of hair loss? 
 If biopsy results indicate advanced
 scarring on the scalp, then there is little chance of bringing
 back significant amounts of hair. If, on the other hand, scarring
 is not prevalent, then treatment with corticosteroid and/or
 antimalarial drugs may be successful in getting the hair to
 return. When the disease is inactive, and scarring is not present
 hair usually grows back.
 Reference: see brochure: Skin Disease
 in Lupus

<p>Will the drugs used to treat baldness help the hair loss due
 to lupus? 
 Suppressing the disease with medication helps hair
 to re-grow. 

<p>13. Is there anything that can be done to cover the lesions (sores)
 that show-up on my face? 
 Yes. There are make-up products available
 commercially which may be helpful in this situation. Fallene's
 Total Block® SPF 60 Foundation can be used as a make-up as well
 as a sun block. 
 References:
 Covermark Cosmetics
 157 Veterans
 Drive, Suite D
 Northvale, NJ 07647
 1-800-524-1120www.covermarkusa.com/

<p>
 Total Block
 Fallene, Ltd.
 677 West De Kalb Pike
 King of
 Prussia, PA 19406
 1-800-332-5536http://www.totalblock.com/

<p>14. Can lupus cause either hives or a sensation of burning in
 the skin? 
 Lupus may cause hives. Itching can also occur but
 this is not a common finding. The sensation of itching is due
 to irritation of nerve fibers in the skin. If the irritation
 is more intense, it may cause a burning sensation. 

<p>15. What is photosensitivity and what are photosensitivity reactions?
 
 Photosensitivity is sensitivity to the UV (ultra-violet) rays
 from the sunlight and other UV light sources. Photosensitivity
 reactions typically include a rash, but may also trigger fever,
 fatigue, joint pain and other symptoms of SLE. In some cases,
 sun exposure has resulted in the onset of kidney disease. Reference:
 see brochure: Skin Disease in Lupus

<p>16. What is the difference between drug-induced lupus (DIL) and
 systemic lupus? 
 Systemic lupus is irreversible, whereas drug-induced
 lupus generally is reversible when the drug is discontinued.
 The symptoms of drug-induced lupus generally DO NOT include
 kidney involvement or central nervous system involvement 

<p>What drugs are most commonly associated with DIL? 
 There is
 just a short list of medications for which there is DEFINITE
 PROOF of an association with drug-induced lupus. The list includes
 5 medications.

<p>Procainamide (pro-can-a-mide) brand names Procan or Pronestyl
 used for heart rhythm abnormalities Hydralazine (hi-dral-a-zine)
 brand name Apresoline or Apresazide used for high blood pressureIsoniazid
 (i-so-nye-a-zid) brand name INH used for tuberculosisQuinidine
 (quin-i-dean) used for heart rhythm abnormalitiesPhenytoin,
 brand name Dilantin used for convulsive disorders (seizures).

<p>Are there other drugs that might cause DIL? 
 The overwhelming
 majority of cases of DIL are due to one of the 5 drugs mentioned
 earlier. There are other drugs, which might POSSIBLY be associated,
 but there is not yet definite proof of an association between
 them and drug-induced lupus. Check with your doctor to see if
 you are on any medication that might possibly explain your symptoms.
 

<p>Should people diagnosed with SLE or Cutaneous lupus avoid taking
 the drugs associated with drug-induced Lupus? 
 Most of the
 drugs associated with DIL can be safely used in people with
 SLE or cutaneous lupus if there are no suitable alternatives.
 

<p>How soon after taking the drug do the symptoms appear? 
 Drug-induced
 lupus requires months to years of frequent exposure to a drug
 before symptoms appear. 

<p>How soon after discontinuing the drug will the symptoms go away?
 
 It varies from days, to weeks, to months. Usually symptoms
 fade after six months. The ANA may remain positive for years.
 
 Reference: see brochure: Drug-Induced Lupus Erythematosus

<p>17. What causes lupus? 
 The exact cause of lupus is unknown.
 It is likely to be due to a combination of factors. For example,
 a person's genetic make-up and exposure to certain unknown trigger
 factors may provide the right environment in which lupus can
 develop. 
 Reference: see Facts & Overview, What is Lupus?

<p>18. Is it hereditary? 
 We suspect (but do not have scientific
 proof) that people inherit something from their parents that
 predisposes them to develop lupus. They are not necessarily
 pre-destined to develop lupus, but they may be more susceptible.
 At the present time, there are no genetic tests to determine
 who is susceptible and who is not. 
 Reference: see Facts &
 Overview, What is Lupus?

<p>Where is genetic research being done?
 Several researchers are
 doing Linkage Studies to evaluate families in which more than
 one member has lupus. They hope to be able to identify a gene
 or genes that are responsible for lupus. Undoubtedly the resources
 of all of these groups will eventually be pooled, but there
 is much to be gained from the current phase of multiple independent
 efforts. Participation in multiple studies is encouraged. More
 are listed in the Clinical Trials section. If you are interested
 in participating or would like information, visit the LFA Research
 Programs page and click on "Clinical Trials," and/or contact
 any of the following: 

<p>National Native American Lupus Project
 This project seeks to
 find members of Tribal Communities willing to participate in
 the search for the genetic causes of systemic lupus. Researchers
 are speaking with leaders and members of different tribal groups
 to exchange information and ideas about the Project, determine
 how best to conduct the research with specific groups, and establish
 complementary goals.

<p>
 If you are Native American and have family members who may
 have lupus, or know of a Native American family with lupus,
 please call the NNALP at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation
 toll free at 1-888-655-8787.

<p>African-American Families with Lupus:
 Scientists at the Oklahoma
 Medical Research Foundation are seeking African-American families
 to participate in studies of systemic lupus erythematosus call
 the Recruiter at Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation 1-888-65
 LUPUS (1-888-655-8787)

<p>Seeking Lupus Families
 Families with at least two members who
 are related by blood and have been diagnosed with lupus should
 call the Recruiter at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation
 at: 1-888-65 LUPUS (1-888-655-8787)
 Families with three or
 more affected members (siblings, cousins, aunts, uncles, grandparents,
 etc.) would be exceptionally helpful.

<p>Genetics of SLE - Family Study
 Division of Rheumatology
 University
 of Minnesota
 14-154 Moos Tower
 515 E. Delaware St.
 Minneapolis,
 MN 55455
 Tel: 1-800-51-LUPUS (1-800-515-8787)

<p>Dr. Jane E. Salmon 
 Hospital for Special Surgery
 Weill Medical
 College of Cornell University
 New York, NY
 Tel: (212) 606-1171

<p>
 The following investigators are participating in the multi-center
 Genetics PROFILE study and are interested in people with lupus
 and their biological parents who live in the geographic areas
 of Birmingham, Alabama; Baltimore, Maryland; Chicago, Illinois
 and Houston, Texas. 

<p>
 Dr. Graciela Alarcon
 University of Alabama at Birmingham

 Birmingham, AL
 (205) 934-2799

<p>
 Dr. Robert Kimberly
 University of Alabama at Birmingham
 Birmingham,
 AL
 (205) 934-5306

<p>Although there is no scientific evidence, it is possible that
 extreme stress may play a role in triggering lupus. 
 Reference:
 see Facts & Overview, What is Lupus?

<p>Is lupus stress related?
 We do not know for certain. There are
 many anecdotal reports (personal accounts) of lupus flaring
 during or after a stressful time, but this question requires
 further scientific study. 

<p>Are flares related to hormones? 
 We do not know for sure. There
 are many anecdotal reports (personal accounts) of lupus flaring
 with pregnancy, the menstrual cycle, birth control pills, and
 hormone replacement therapy. We suspect that hormones play a
 role, but we don't know precisely what the role is. Lupus has
 a 9:1 female to male ratio so it is likely that hormones play
 a role, perhaps by influencing the immune system. Also, we know
 that female hormones have a definite effect on lupus mice used
 in research. 

<p>Are there any medications people with lupus should avoid?
 There
 are no absolute contraindications to needed and appropriate
 medications for a person with systemic lupus. Your doctor should
 watch for allergic reactions to medications, and watch for any
 connection between flares and estrogen or oral contraceptives.
 

<p>
 People with lupus should be especially careful if they are
 prescribed sulfa antibiotics. These medications (Bactrim, Gantrisin,
 Septra) are often prescribed for urinary tract infections and
 may cause an increase in sun sensitivity and occasionally lower
 blood counts resulting in disease flares. There are also sulfa
 diuretics (water pills) such as Dyazide and diabetic drugs containing
 sulfa such as Aldactone. 

<p>Does lupus occur more often in certain geographical areas? 

 No. 

<p>Is lupus related to pollution or toxic chemicals? 
 We do not
 know. The cause of lupus, and many other autoimmune diseases,
 remains unknown. The respective roles of genetic and environmental
 factors in triggering lupus remain to be determined. The National
 Institutes of Health (NIH), the principal biomedical research
 agency of the United States Government established the National
 Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) to study
 issues related to environmental health. A meeting in September
 of 1998 at Research Triangle Institute (RTI) in Durham, NC organized
 by NIEHS, looked at autoimmunity and the environment and specifically
 lupus. A review of the discussion was published in the medical
 journal, Arthritis and Rheumatism (1998 Oct; 41(10): 1714-24)
 in an article titled: "Hormonal, Environmental, and Infectious
 Risk Factors for Developing Systemic Lupus Erythematosus" by
 Cooper GS, Dooley MA, Treadwell EL, St Clair EW, Parks CG, Gilkeson
 GS. 
 The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
 (NIEHS) website: http://www.niehs.nih.gov/ 

<p>Can something in your diet cause lupus?
 We do not believe so.
 

<p>
Resource:
 "Eating Healthy When You Have Lupus," by Kristine
 Napier, MPH, RD. Lupus News, Vol. 15, Number 1, 1995. 

<p>21. Silicone breast implants
 I have silicone breast implants
 and am being tested for lupus. Is there any connection between
 silicone implants and lupus?

<p>
 There has been a great deal of interest in this issue and to
 date there have been numerous well controlled research studies
 since 1992 that have looked at this question. However, none
 has shown a clear association between silicone breast implants
 and the development of lupus disease. 

<p>
 In March 1998, the National Institutes of Health requested
 that the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National Academy
 of Sciences (NAS) provide an independent, unbiased review of
 past and ongoing research on the health effects of silicone
 breast implants. To respond to this request, the IOM established
 a committee of 12 experts in relevant scientific and clinical
 areas to assess the scientific information on silicone breast
 implants and the relationship, if any, to various health conditions.
 

<p>
 A one-day scientific workshop was convened on July 22, 1998
 in Washington, DC-testimony included epidemiology and observational
 studies, immunology reports, company data from Mentor Corp.
 and Dow Corning Corp., and surgery, pathology, and radiology
 information. A public hearing followed on July 24, to gather
 information and views from a wide range of lay, advocacy, industry,
 and public policy groups. 

<p>
 The following year, in June of 1999, the Institute of Medicine's
 final report concurred with the scientific evidence that had
 accumulated over the previous 7 years which does not support
 the notion that silicone breast implants cause lupus. At the
 present time, as far as we know, there is no scientific evidence
 to indicate a cause-effect relationship between silicone breast
 implants and lupus. 

<p>
 If I have my implants removed, will my lupus symptoms improve,
 will the lupus go away? We don't know. There have been reports
 of women who had silicone breast implants removed and their
 symptoms improved. On the other hand, there have been cases
 where symptoms have not improved after removal. 

<p>
 Resources: 
 To receive the most recent information on breast
 implants contact the 
 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 

 Breast Implant Information Line 
 1-800-532-4440 or visit their
 web site at: http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/breastimplants/

<p>22. Is there any truth to the claims being circulated on the
 Internet that lupus is caused by the artificial sweetener, aspartame?

 We are aware there is an email message circulating on the Internet
 warning individuals with lupus about dangers associated with
 using the artificial sweetener aspartame. The Lupus Foundation
 of America consulted with the chair of the LFA Medical Council,
 Evelyn Hess, MD, MACP, MACR. Dr. Hess is one of the nation's
 leading researchers in the field of lupus specializing in environmental
 influences. According to Dr. Hess, there is, as of now, no specific
 proof of an association with aspartame as a cause or worsening
 of SLE. 

<p>
 People with lupus should always consult with their physician
 before making any changes in their medical treatment, diet,
 exercise or other routine based on information received via
 the Internet or other sources lacking known credentials. 

<p>24. Why is systemic lupus so difficult to diagnose? 
 It is difficult
 for a number of reasons: 

<l> Systemic lupus is a multi-system disease, and before a multi-system
 disease can be diagnosed, there have to be symptoms in many
 parts of the body and lab work that supports the presence of
 a multi-system disease. 

<l> Systemic lupus is also difficult to diagnose because it is a
 disease that does not typically develop rapidly, but rather
 develops slowly and evolves over time. Symptoms come and go
 and it generally takes time to gradually accumulate enough symptoms
 to indicate that a multi-system disease is present. The 

<l>Systemic lupus is known as a Great Imitator because it mimics
 so many other diseases and conditions. 

<l> Systemic lupus is difficult to diagnose because there is no
 single diagnostic test for lupus. In fact, many people may have
 positive lupus tests-particularly the anti-nuclear antibody
 test-and yet NOT have the disease. 

<p>How is systemic lupus diagnosed? 
 Physicians have to gather
 information from a variety of sources: past medical history,
 lab tests and current symptoms. They use a list of 11 criteria
 to help diagnose SLE. A person needs to satisfy at least 4 out
 of the 11 criteria before the diagnosis can be pinpointed (see
 list in What is Lupus? brochure). Some criteria, such as a biopsy
 diagnosis of kidney lupus, can carry more weight. 

<p>
 Of the 11 criteria, 7 relate to symptoms, and 4 have to do
 with lab tests. The ANA test is used as a screening test for
 systemic lupus. We know that 95 % of people with SLE have a
 positive ANA. Therefore, if a person has many symptoms of systemic
 lupus and their ANA test is negative, that's generally regarded
 as pretty good evidence against lupus being the explanation
 for the symptoms they are having. 

<p>
 If on the other hand, the ANA comes back positive, that IS
 NOT proof of lupus. The positive ANA is only an indicator; it
 is not diagnostic. A positive ANA can be found in a number of
 illnesses and conditions including: 

<p>
 Rheumatoid arthritis
 Sjogren's (show-grens) syndrome
 Scleroderma
 (sklare-a-derm-a)Infectious diseases such as:
 Mononucleosis

 Malaria
 Subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE)Autoimmune diseases
 including:
 Autoimmune thyroid disease
 Autoimmune liver disease
 

<p> Certain medications can also cause a positive ANA. About 20%
 of the general population when tested will have a positive ANA
 and not have any of the above mentioned illnesses. The ANA is
 only a test and like a high cholesterol value, a positive ANA
 doesn't necessarily equate having a disease. 

<p>
 So, a positive ANA, by itself, is not diagnostic of any one
 particular disease and may be present in people who have no
 illness. Although it is often referred to as "a lupus test,"
 it is not like a pregnancy test where a positive result can
 mean only one thing. The ANA is only an indicator, which points
 in several possible directions. A positive ANA satisfies only
 one criterion. A person would need to satisfy at least 3 additional
 criteria. 
 Reference: see brochure, Laboratory Tests Used in
 the Diagnosis of Lupus

<p>I've seen a list of symptoms of lupus and I have just about every
 one. The doctor I went to doesn't think I have lupus, but he
 doesn't seem to know too much about it. How can I be sure I
 do or do not have lupus?
 Lupus is a very difficult disease
 to diagnose. Physicians use a list of 11 criteria to assist
 in the diagnosis. The criteria consist of symptoms and lab tests,
 which tend to be specific to SLE. The list of 11 criteria is
 not to be confused with lists of common symptoms of systemic
 lupus, such as: fatigue, fever, weight loss, hair loss, nausea,
 Raynaud's phenomenon. These symptoms, could be due to numerous
 illnesses or conditions, and, therefore, are too vague to be
 included as diagnostic criteria. 

<p>
 If a person has many of the symptoms of systemic lupus, the
 physician may suspect lupus is developing, and evaluate the
 patient to see if any criteria are met. If fewer than 4 criteria
 are satisfied, there is insufficient evidence to diagnose systemic
 lupus. A rheumatologist or a clinical immunologist may be consulted
 if you are looking for a specialist who has the expertise to
 diagnose and treat lupus.
 Reference: see Facts & Overview,
 What is Lupus?

<p>I am afraid I might have lupus and my doctor is going to miss
 something and end up diagnosing me with lupus too late. If I
 have it, I want to be diagnosed as early as possible. How can
 I make sure I am diagnosed earlier rather than later?

<p>
 Because lupus tends to develop slowly and evolve gradually
 over time, awaiting a diagnosis can be like waiting for a Polaroid
 picture to develop. If you are seen by a doctor at a point in
 time when only one or two criteria are satisfied, it is like
 looking at a picture that is only one-quarter or half-way developed.
 No one looking at that picture can accurately identify what
 it is. Nor can they predict if it will develop at all or what
 it will develop into, or how long it will be before it is developed
 to the point where it's identifiable. Just as there is no good
 way to speed-up the development of a Polaroid, there is no way
 to hurry-up the diagnosis of lupus. 

<p>
 The length of time it takes before lupus can be diagnosed is
 highly variable; it may take weeks, months or years; three years
 is not an uncommon length of time for many people to have symptoms
 before being diagnosed. In some cases, it can take as long as
 10 years before enough evidence has accumulated to indicate
 that it is lupus. However, generally a doctor has a pretty good
 idea, though s/he may not be certain, that a person does or
 does not have SLE. The important thing is to learn the signs
 and symptoms of lupus and if you develop something new, let
 your doctor know so s/he can determine if you have yet satisfied
 enough criteria to be diagnosed. 

<p>My doctor suspects I have lupus, but hasn't diagnosed me with
 it yet. I have a lot of joint pain in my hands and knees. Can
 anything be prescribed to give me some relief, or do I have
 to wait until I have a definite diagnosis before they can treat
 me?
 Sometimes, a trial of lupus medications is helpful, so
 discuss this with your doctor. 

<p>My Doctor said my lupus test came back "borderline positive."
 What does this mean? 
 The screening test for lupus is called
 the ANA (antinuclear antibody). All lab tests have normal values.
 If a test result comes back and the value is at the upper limit
 of normal, this is often referred to as being on the border
 or borderline. These results are often very difficult to interpret;
 and the assessment of its importance is dependent on meeting
 other criterion. It is likely that a borderline positive ANA
 assumes more importance if other criteria are also present.
 

<p>I was told my ANA was positive, but I don't have lupus. My Doctor
 thinks I have a connective tissue disease. What does this mean?

 Connective tissue includes joints, tendons, cartilage, collagen,
 muscles and skin. There are a number of connective tissue diseases;
 rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, Sjogren's syndrome, Raynaud's
 phenomenon, vasculitis, polymyositis and dermatomyositis. It
 is not uncommon for a person to have symptoms that indicate
 a connective tissue disease, but not enough symptoms to clearly
 specify a particular disease.

<p>I was told my ANA was negative, and I don't have lupus. Is it
 possible to have lupus with a negative ANA?
 Approximately 95%
 of people with systemic lupus have a positive ANA. Only a small
 percentage have a negative ANA, and many of those have other
 antibodies detected in their blood (antiphospholipid antibodies,
 anti-Ro, anti-SSA). Sometimes the ANA will convert from positive
 to negative following administration of steroids, cytotoxic
 medications or uremia (kidney failure). 

<p>What kind of Doctor can diagnose systemic lupus?
 If multiple
 criteria are present simultaneously, the diagnosis may be made
 by any physician (Family Practitioner, Internist, Pediatrician).
 If however, as is often the case, symptoms develop gradually
 over time, the diagnosis may not be as obvious and consultation
 with a rheumatologist may be needed. 

<p>My doctor suspects that I may be developing lupus, but I don't
 satisfy enough criteria to be diagnosed. Is there anything I
 can do to slow its development or prevent it from occurring?
 
 If you are indeed developing lupus, there is no known way
 of arresting it. You can, however, be an active participant
 in your well being by: 

<l>learning as much as you can about lupus so if you develop further
 symptoms, you will recognize them and notify your doctor, 

<l>eating a well balanced diet, 

<l> managing stress more effectively, and 

<l> following your doctor's advice. 

<p>I was told my ANA was positive and I have a lot of pain, but
 my doctor thinks I have fibromyalgia and not lupus. What does
 this mean?
 Patients with positive ANA's and muscle and joint
 pain do not necessarily have lupus. Fibromyalgia, which is also
 common in women, sometimes explains the widespread pain. 

<p>26. I was diagnosed with systemic lupus. Are there any do's or
 don'ts with regard to:Diet - There is no such thing as a lupus
 diet. People with lupus should consider following a diet such
 as the American Heart Association's diet or the American Cancer
 Society diet. These are both well-researched diets that have
 common components, they are low in fat, low in sodium, high
 in fiber, low in refined sugars. They are also balanced and
 include appropriate amounts of all the different food groups.
 If you find, however, that certain foods seem to aggravate or
 consistently cause a flare-up of your lupus symptoms, you should
 certainly avoid eating those foods. 
 Reference: "Eating Healty
 When You Have Lupus," by Kristine Napier, MPH, RD. Lupus News,
 Vol 15, Number 1, 1995. 

<p>
 Alfalfa sprouts are in the legume family and contain an amino
 acid, L-canavanine. It can stimulate the immune system in people
 with lupus and increase inflammation. Other legumes are safe
 to eat as they have a much lower concentration of L-canavanine
 compared to alfalfa sprouts. Check labels on health food packaging
 as alfalfa may also be found as an ingredient in food products.
 Reference: see brochure, Lupus: Basics for Better Living

<p>Vitamins - In general, a multi-vitamin is reasonable, but excess
 vitamins can be potentially dangerous and should be avoided.
 

<p>Exercise - Exercise is to be encouraged in people with lupus,
 particularly during a time when lupus symptoms are not pronounced.
 Walking, swimming, bicycling and other aerobic activities are
 good. But keep in mind that you want to exercise in moderation
 and avoid exercising to the point of exhaustion. Regular exercise
 will help you function better and improve fatigue and your sense
 of well being.

<p>Fatigue - When your lupus is active, you very often will suffer
 with fatigue. It is important to recognize this as a signal
 that your body needs to rest. It is essential that during a
 time of flare you get sufficient rest. This may include naps
 during the day, modifying your schedule as well as restructuring
 your priorities. Adjusting to fatigue often requires that you
 learn how to pace yourself in order to accomplish the things
 you want to accomplish throughout a day. Regular aerobic exercise
 that achieves enhanced physical conditioning, usually helps
 fatigue. Avoid strenuous exercise if you have fever or other
 signs of VERY active disease. 

<p>Sleep - Get plenty of it, but keep in mind that when you are
 coming out of a flare you do need to gradually resume your normal
 activities slowly over a period of time. This may require naps
 during the day-a brief cat nap can be of tremendous help. It's
 important to get enough sleep at night and to pace yourself
 during the day so you don't exhaust yourself. 

<p>Medications - Be sure and take your medications as prescribed
 by your doctor. If you develop any side effects make sure you
 let your doctor know what they are. Make it a point to understand
 what the medication you take is supposed to do so you will be
 able to recognize if it is indeed working. Also, ask how long
 before you should see the effects of the medication and if you
 find it's not working within the time frame, let your doctor
 know. 

<p>Work schedule -The type of work schedule someone with lupus can
 accommodate is variable. Many people with lupus are able to
 work a full-time job, others find they have to cut back to part-time.
 Some people find they are unable to work and some apply for
 and receive disability. 

<p>27. Flares How can I tell if my lupus is active? 
 When a lupus
 flare occurs, people will usually notice a return of the symptoms
 they experienced previously, but sometimes they will notice
 new symptoms. These may include, but are not limited to: 

<l> Fever 

<l> Swollen joints 

<l> Increase in fatigue 

<l> Rashes 

<l> Sores or ulcers in the mouth or nose 

<l>A temperature over 100 degrees, not due to an infection, is often
 a    helpful sign in identifying a flare. 

<l>When should I call the Doctor? 
 You should call the doctor about
 any change in symptoms or worsening of your lupus as soon as
 possible. You should also be aware that there are certain symptoms
 that may require that you see your doctor immediately. These
 symptoms or signs include the following: 

<l> Blood in your stool or vomit -you should call your doctor and
 let him/her know immediately 

<l> Severe abdominal pain 

<l> Chest pain 

<l> Seizures 

<l> New onset of a fever or if your fever is much higher than it
 usually is 

<l> Excess bruising or bleeding anywhere on your body 

<l> Confusion or mood changes 

<l> A combination of symptoms such as severe headache with neck
 stiffness and fever. This combination could be serious and you
 need to let your doctor know immediately. 

<l>There are other reasons why you should call your doctor. For
 example, if the doctor has put you on a new medication and you've
 been taking it as prescribed, and for the period of time prescribed
 and your symptoms are no better or they are worse, you need
 to let the doctor know. 

<l>How long will a flare last? How long will a remission last? 

 There is no way of predicting how long a flare will last when
 it comes, nor is there any way of predicting how long a remission
 will last when it comes. It is frequently said about lupus that
 the only thing that is predictable about lupus is it's unpredictability.
 So we have no way of forecasting how long a flare will last
 or how long a remission will last. Sometimes changes in symptoms
 or lab tests predict future changes.

<l>I've had lupus for 2 years and haven't had a remission yet. Is
 this possible?
 Yes. Lupus takes a highly variable course. Some
 people will have a course where their lupus flares-up and then
 simmers down and goes into remission. On the other hand, some
 have a more chronic (long-lasting) course where they have a
 chronic state of flare and have symptoms day-in and day-out.

<l>28. What can I expect in the future? Will I be able to have a
 family? 
 Unless there is moderate to severe organ involvement
 or if a person must take immunosuppressive/immunomodulating
 medications that would place the mother at risk, there is no
 absolute reason why a person with lupus should not get pregnant.
 You must be aware, however, that there is an increased risk
 of disease activity either during or three to four weeks after
 pregnancy and, therefore, all women with lupus who are pregnant
 must be closely monitored by an obstetrician who is thoroughly
 familiar with high risk pregnancy as well as their lupus doctor.
 Statistically, 50% of all lupus pregnancies are completely normal,
 25% will deliver normal babies prematurely and the remaining
 25% will experience either a miscarriage or a fetal death. 

<l>
 Years ago women with lupus were advised not to have children.
 However, today with the advances in diagnosis and treatment
 of lupus, unless there is moderate to severe organ involvement,
 there is no absolute reason why a person with lupus should not
 get pregnant. 

<l>Will I be able to continue working full-time? 
 Many people who
 have lupus are able to continue working full-time. However,
 since lupus affects people to varying degrees there is no real
 way of predicting what your course of lupus will bring in the
 future. Some find they have to cut back to part-time or try
 modifications of their work environment or schedule, some find
 they have to take a leave of absence for a period of time, others
 may find their lupus activity is such that they are unable to
 continue with working, and some may go on disability. 

<l>Will I live long enough to see my children grow up? 
 The majority
 of people living with lupus today, in fact 80-90% of them, can
 expect to live a normal lifespan. 
 Reference: see Facts & Overview,
 What is Lupus?

<l>Will I become crippled and end up in a wheelchair? 
 People are
 frequently concerned that the arthritis associated with lupus
 will result in crippling deformities. Lupus arthritis generally
 does not cause deformities of the joints. Occasionally, avascular
 necrosis of bone, related to steroids and lupus, may occur and
 require total hip or knee replacement surgery. 
 Reference:
 see brochure, Joint and Muscle Pain in Lupus

<l>29. Is there anything I can do to alleviate the pain when the
 pills don't seem to work and I can't get in to see the doctor
 for a few days? 
 Some people find relief from heat, some people
 find relief from cold. Others find that if they can find a distraction
 to decrease their awareness of pain, this is beneficial. 

<l>Resources:
 see brochure, LUPUS: Basics for Better Living; "Control
 Your Pain: 144 Sure-Fire Strategies for Reducing the Pain of
 Lupus," by Robert H. Phillips, Ph.D. Available through the LFA
 Store. 

<l>30. I have heard that dental fillings may trigger lupus. Is there
 anything to this? 
 At the present time, we do not have any
 scientific data that indicates that dental fillings may act
 as a trigger of lupus. In fact, it is highly unlikely that dental
 fillings aggravate or cause SLE. 

<l>31. I have heard that hair dyes may trigger flares in lupus.
 Does this mean I should stop dying my hair?
 One study indicated
 an association between the use of hair dyes and lupus symptoms,
 but subsequent studies found no association and no recent evidence
 has been reported. The initial study findings are of uncertain
 significance and most physicians do not feel that hair dye is
 risky for people with lupus. 

<l>32. Can lupus cause memory problems? 
 At some point during the
 course of their lupus, up to 50% of lupus patients describe
 feelings of confusion, fatigue, memory impairment, and difficulty
 expressing their thoughts. This collection of symptoms is called
 "cognitive dysfunction" and is found in people with mild to
 moderately active SLE.

<l>34. How is lupus treated? 
 The majority of symptoms of lupus
 are due to inflammation and so the treatment is aimed at reducing
 that inflammation. This can be done through a number of different
 medications. There are four families of medications used in
 the treatment of lupus. They include: 

<l> Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - drugs such as ibuprofen
 (Advil & Motrin), naproxen, (Naprosyn & Aleve), sulindac (Clinoril),
 piroxicam (Feldene), diclofenac (Voltaren) to name a few. 

<l> Corticosteroids - drugs such as prednisone, prednisolone, medrol,
 deltasone, cortisone and others. 

<l> Anti-malarials - these have been found to be effective in treating
 the joint pain, skin rashes and ulcers that some people develop
 on the inside of their nose or mouth. Plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine)
 is probably the most commonly prescribed anti-malarial drug
 in the United States. There is no known relationship between
 lupus and malaria. 

<l> The fourth family of medications, immunosuppressants (or immunomodulating)
 /chemotherapy, is generally reserved for those individuals who
 have the most severe flares of lupus; or to enable the steroid
 dose to be reduced. A severe flare is one that affects an organ
 to the degree that the function is impaired. When this happens
 something has to be done to preserve the function of the organ
 and that's when immunosuppressive or chemotherapy medications
 are prescribed. These actually suppress the over activity of
 the immune system brought on by the lupus, and help limit the
 damage and preserve the function of the involved organ. (Lupus
 is NOT a form of cancer). 

<l> The majority of people who have lupus are treated with the first
 three families of medications, the nonsteroidals, corticosteroids
 and the anti-malarial drugs. These may be used either alone
 or in combination. Since individuals respond differently to
 medications, it may take time before you are able to determine,
 through trial & error, which medication at which dose provides
 relief of the symptoms of lupus. Frequently physicians will
 try one medication see how it works and if it doesn't work,
 they may have to change the dose or switch to another medication.
 
 References: see Brochures: 
 Medications Used in the Treatment
 of LupusNonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)Steroids
 in the Treatment of LupusAnti-Malarials in the Treatment of
 LupusImmune Suppressants and Related Drugs Used for Lupus. 

<l>I don't want to go on prednisone. Are there any other treatments
 available? 
 In addition to corticosteroids, lupus can be treated
 with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, anti-malarial medications,
 and chemotherapy drugs. There can be situations where steroids
 are the best choice of therapy and the other medications are
 not indicated or are ineffective. 

<l>What can I do about the weight gain brought on by the prednisone?
 
 Increased appetite is well recognized as a side effect of
 corticosteroid therapy. Often times, just being aware that this
 increase in appetite may occur with the steroid therapy, is
 the first step towards managing the potential weight gain. If
 you have to go on steroids or if you have to increase your dosage
 of steroids, you may want to consider planning out a healthy
 diet during the time you're taking steroids and making sure
 that you stick to it. During those times, however, when you're
 really hungry, here are some things you can do to combat the
 munchies: 

<l>Drink a large glass of low sodium vegetable juice cocktail 

<l> Eat a bowl of air popped or low fat microwave popcorn 

<l>Eat a plate of raw vegetables dipped in fat-free sour cream 

<l> If you can, go for a walk 

<l> Drink a cup of decaffeinated flavored coffee with low fat milk
 

<l> These are low fat substitutions, which can reduce your overall
 caloric intake and hopefully curb your weight gain. Taking steroids
 can also increase water weight gain. You can help to cut down
 the amount of fluid retention by reducing your sodium and/or
 salt intake. This can be accomplished by avoiding processed
 or convenience food whenever possible. If you are going to be
 eating convenience or processed foods, check the label and make
 sure that no item contains more than 200 mg of sodium per serving.
 Or if you are eating a whole frozen dinner, for example, try
 and stay between 500 and 700 mg of sodium. If you can avoid
 processed meats such as luncheon meats, sausages or bacon, you'll
 be reducing your sodium intake and that's good. If you have
 a choice among fresh, frozen or canned vegetables, stay away
 from the canned and choose fresh or frozen because they are
 lower in sodium. 

<l> Support groups and commercial weight loss programs can assist
 in weight control efforts. 
 Reference: "Eating Healthy When
 You Have Lupus," by Kristine Napier, MPH, RD. Lupus News, Vol
 15, Number 1, 1995. 

<l>Do you recommend any herbs or vitamins for the treatment of lupus?

 We do not recommend any specific herbs or vitamins. There is
 a great deal of interest in herbal medicine and vitamin therapy.
 However, this is an area that really requires further scientific
 study. There are many anecdotal reports of people who took a
 certain vitamin or herb and felt that it helped improve their
 lupus. However, you have to be careful because some herbs have
 been shown to contain dangerous contaminants. With vitamin therapy,
 you have to be careful of not overdosing. 

<l>
 In general if you are concerned about having adequate quantities
 of vitamins in your diet, you can take a single multi-vitamin
 per day. Calcium supplements, to prevent osteoporosis (bone
 thinning), are a good idea. Patients who are prescribed methotrexate
 are often told to further supplement their diet with folic acid.
 

<l>35. Where is the BEST place to go for diagnosis and treatment
 of lupus? 
 There is no one single recognized center of excellence
 for the treatment and diagnosis of lupus in the United States
 today. The Lupus Foundation of America has no mechanism by which
 it can rate either hospitals or physicians. The general recommendation
 is to find a physician that is affiliated with a medical school
 -a university hospital for example. These health care institutions
 may have faculty on staff who are involved in lupus research,
 and are generally the most up-to-date on the latest advances
 in diagnosis and treatment of lupus. These are generally regarded
 as very good places to go for the diagnosis and treatment of
 lupus. Certainly the health care institutions with established
 reputations fit this description. 

<l>37. Is acupuncture helpful to people with lupus?
 There have
 been anecdotal reports from people stating that they received
 acupuncture and believed they benefited from it. This is an
 area of alternative medicine that requires further controlled
 scientific studies before we can say whether or not acupuncture
 is helpful in treating the symptoms of lupus. However, there
 are studies that show acupuncture can be effective in back pain
 and fibromyalgia. 

<l>
 Resources: "Can Acupuncture Help Lupus?" by Clayton E. Spivey,
 Licensed Acupuncturist. Lupus News, Vol. 16, Number 3, 1996.
 

<l>38. Does the Lupus Foundation have any recommendations regarding
 alternative and unproven treatments that are often advertised?

 The LFA is frequently asked about alternative therapies for
 the treatment of lupus. Although we remain hopeful that newer
 more effective therapies will be developed, we must be cautious
 regarding products that have not been approved by the Food and
 Drug Administration (FDA). 

<l>Unsubstantiated Remedies
 It is the policy of the Lupus Foundation
 of America not to make recommendations concerning medications
 or products that have not been approved by the FDA or the American
 College of Rheumatology (ACR) for the treatment of lupus. In
 addition the ACR does not endorse nor warrant any commercial
 product or service. There is a wealth of information and data
 available about approved medications and products which help
 guide physicians in making recommendations to their patients.
 Remedies that have not undergone the scrutiny of scientific
 investigation, lack the crucial information and data necessary
 to enable physicians to make sound recommendations regarding
 substances.

<l>
 Evaluation of medications/products by the scientific method
 is at the present time the best way to prove effectiveness and
 safety. We urge people with lupus to ask the manufacturer/distributor
 of any product: what is their proof, other than testimonial,
 that the product is safe and effective for lupus? If the product
 has not been approved by the FDA, we cannot vouch for the claims
 made for the purity, safety, or effectiveness of these substances.
 Some products may have unlabeled substances such as alfalfa
 or sulfa that may be harmful to patients with lupus. 

<l>
 The following organizations may have information about alternative
 therapies or products.

<l>
 National Institutes of Health 
 National Center for Complementary
 and Alternative Medicine
 Phone: 888-644-6226http://nccam.nih.gov/

<l>39. Lupus Research Is any research being done on lupus? 
 Yes,
 there is a good deal of interest in lupus. Research can be divided
 into two types: basic or clinical. Much of the lupus research
 is considered to be basic, where scientists attempt to develop
 or refine theories (concepts, beliefs, principles) of how the
 body works and how the immune system functions. Basic research
 is conducted in the laboratory and generally does not involve
 the use of human subjects. We are lucky to have animal models
 of SLE (mice with lupus) so that research into the cause of
 lupus and better treatments can be investigated more easily.
 

<l>
 Clinical research involves the study of humans and how they
 act or react to certain factors. It includes applying or testing
 theories and evaluating their usefulness in solving clinical
 problems. 

<l>
 Each year the American College of Rheumatology publishes a
 listing of summaries (abstracts) of research projects. In a
 typical year, there are over 200 research abstracts listed that
 pertain to lupus. The majority of the studies are basic research.
 Published research studies can be found using the National Library
 of Medicine's PubMed web site: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/

<l>
 Currently, we are aware of many ongoing clinical studies involving
 people with lupus and their families. A list of studies is available
 in the Clinical Trials section of this site. 

<l>
 Clinical research can be divided into two broad areas: testing
 of new therapies and research to expand our understanding of
 different aspects of lupus. There are several genetic linkage
 studies in lupus (see question 18) that will help to identify
 genes that determine susceptibility to the disease. We are also
 aware of multi-centered clinical trials that are evaluating
 DHEA, a male hormone, to see if it can improve clinical outcome
 and disease symptoms in women and men with systemic lupus. There
 are also clinical trials being conducted using Toleragens,&#153;
 which are molecules designed to tolerize or shut-off B cells
 (antibody producing white blood cells) that produce Anti-DNA
 antibodies. Anti-DNA antibodies are felt to be responsible for
 causing many of the symptoms of SLE, especially kidney disease.
 It is hoped that suppression of these antibodies will result
 in improvement of disease activity and decrease the need for
 immunosuppressive therapies. These are just a few of the many
 areas of lupus research under investigation. For more information
 visit the LFA Research, Programs and LFA Funded Projects areas
 of this site. 

<l>Where is lupus being researched? 
 Lupus research is conducted
 by both public and private organizations, companies, universities
 and colleges, as well as the federal government; which includes
 the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Department of Veterans
 Affairs (VA), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Food
 & Drug Administration (FDA), and the Military. The NIH contains
 the National Institute for Arthritis, Musculoskeletal and Skin
 diseases. This is commonly referred to as NIAMS, and it is here
 where much of the federally funded research related to lupus
 takes place. 

<l>Where does the NIAMS lupus research take place? 
 The NIAMS is
 within the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland
 and research occurs there, as well as at other major medical
 centers around the country. 

<l>
 In April 1994, NIAMS announced the establishment of the first
 two Specialized Centers of Research (SCORs) in systemic lupus
 erythematosus; the Hospital for Special Surgery, Cornell Medical
 Center in New York City, and the University of North Carolina,
 in Chapel Hill. A SCOR is envisioned as a national resource
 associated with one or more major medical complexes and dedicated
 to working with the NIAMS in furthering the research effort
 to translate basic research to clinical application. Federally
 funded research at these specialized centers permits basic and
 clinical researchers to work together to focus on one disease.
 
 To learn more about NIAMS initiatives in lupus research see
 their Press Releases:

<l>
 In addition to the NIAMS, there are several other institutes
 involved in lupus research within the National Institutes of
 Health (NIH), including the NIDDK, NIAID and NCCR. 

<l>
 What do we now know as a result of NIAMS supported research?
 A synopsis of progress in lupus research is available in the
 booklet: Progress and Promise - NIAMS 15th Anniversary Booklet
 

<l>Are there any studies on the use of estrogen in lupus?
 In January
 1996, NIAMS announced the beginning of the first clinical trial
 on the safety of estrogen in lupus erythematosus. The clinical
 trial, known as SELENA, (Safety of Estrogen in Lupus Erythematosus
 National Assessment) is being funded by NIAMS, the NIH Office
 of Research on Women's Health and the NIH Office of Research
 on Minority Health. Several major research centers in twelve
 states are collaborating in this randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled
 trial to determine:

<l>
 1. the effects of oral contraceptives on disease activity and
 severity in SLE. This will show whether it is safe for women
 with SLE to use the Pill. 

<l>
 2. whether the hormone estrogen can be used by postmenopausal
 women with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). The study will
 look at the effects of estrogen replacement therapy on the activity
 and severity of SLE. 

<l>
 A list of study sites, contact information, inclusion and exclusion
 criteria is available at Clinical Trials.gov. Use the search
 term SELENA. 

<l>NIAMS Registries for Lupus and Lupus Related Conditions

<l>Lupus Registry and Repository
 In early 1996, the NIAMS established
 the Lupus Registry and Repository to study people with lupus,
 and their families in order to identify genes that determine
 susceptibility to the disease. The high prevalence of lupus
 among relatives of lupus patients suggests a genetic component
 for the disease. However, genetic studies of lupus to date have
 been incomplete. The Lupus Registry and Repository is located
 at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation in Oklahoma City,
 OK. 

<l>
 Dr. John Harley directs this extensive project. He and his
 associates collect and update clinical, demographic and laboratory
 data on all patients with lupus and their families for the Lupus
 Registry. Blood, cells, and DNA from these individuals are stored
 in the Lupus Repository for genetic testing. 

<l>
 They are seeking lupus patients who have two or more family
 members who have been diagnosed with the disease. Families who
 qualify for the study receive a blood sample collection kit,
 a consent form and a questionnaire. A blood sample is collected
 and completed materials are sent to Dr. Harley and his associates
 for evaluation. Patients or physicians interested in participating
 should contact:

<l>Neonatal Lupus Registry
 Dr. Jill Buyon is the director of the
 NIAMS/HJD Neonatal Lupus Registry. The Registry includes identifying
 and diagnostic information on mothers and their affected infants.
 The purpose of the Registry is to facilitate access to patients
 by investigators conducting basic, clinical or epidemiological
 research.
 Please contact:

<l>Antiphospholipid Syndrome Registry
 Robert A.S. Roubey, M.D.
 at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill directs the
 APS registry scientists who will collect clinical, demographic
 and laboratory information on patients with clinical signs of
 APS as well as people who have antibodies but have not yet developed
 any clinical signs. Data will be made available to researchers
 and medical practitioners concerned with diagnosis and treatment.

 Please contact: 

<l>
 Robert A. S. Roubey, M.D.
 University of North Carolina,
 Chapel
 Hill, NC
 Tel: 919-966-0572
 Email: apscore@med.unc.edu

<l>Fibromyalgia Family Study Registry
 Dr. Jane Olson will lead
 this study of patients in families with at least two FMS-affected
 individuals. Families are eligible for participation in this
 study if at least two closely related family members have Fibromyalgia
 Syndrome (FMS) and if at least one of these has no other major
 rheumatologic disease. Clinical, demographic, and laboratory
 data on FMS will be collected. In addition, DNA will be collected
 so that genetic linkage studies may be performed.
 Please contact:
 

<l>Does the Lupus Foundation of America (LFA) do research? 
 A primary
 focus of the LFA is to encourage research related to the causes,
 treatments, prevention, and cure of lupus. The LFA directly
 sponsors "seed" research monies to test new approaches and develop
 experimental prototypes that may be presented for larger-scale
 funding through public or other sources. This research program
 is supported exclusively through donations from the LFA's more
 than 50 chapters, private foundations or corporations, and the
 concerned public. It is the LFA's hope that this investment
 in research will produce new information which may directly
 lead to much larger projects and substantially increased funding
 from other sources, particularly the National Institutes of
 Health. For further information, visit: LFA Funded Projects.

<l>How do I find out more about the LFA's Research Grant Program?
 

<l>
 Each year the LFA distributes requests for proposals (RFP)
 to teaching centers, hospitals, educational institutions and
 researchers across the country. A primary focus of the organization
 is to encourage research related to the causes, treatments,
 prevention, and cure of lupus and to directly sponsor "seed"
 research monies to test new approaches and develop experimental
 prototypes that may be presented for larger-scale funding through
 public or other sources. 

<l>
 Grants are awarded for up to two years to junior investigators
 (defined as academic rank of Assistant Professor or below) to
 support biomedical research related to finding the cause(s)
 and/or cure for lupus erythematosus. 

<l>
 Researchers interested in the LFA grants program can Contact
 the LFA National Office and ask to be placed on the RFP mailing
 list. Information and applications are downloadable from the
 LFA Research section of this site. The deadline for applications
 is April 1st of each year. 

<l>How close are we to a cure? 
 It is difficult to know. Just as
 an automobile mechanic must understand how a car engine works
 before he/she can fix it, we must have a broader and more in-depth
 understanding of how the immune system works before we can find
 the cure. We must also continue to look for other causes such
 as a virus that can cause lupus. 

<l>
 Through research, we establish new knowledge and a better understanding
 of how the immune system functions. Our knowledge is incomplete,
 but we don't know how much more we need before we will fully
 understand what goes wrong in lupus and why. So, we don't know
 how close we are to a cure because we don't know really where
 the finish line is. There is a great deal of interest within
 the scientific community in mastering all the complexities of
 the immune system. Because of this, there is hope that we will
 one day understand just precisely what goes wrong with lupus
 and why. This will be a major step in the process of finding
 the cure. 

<l>40. Is lupus included in the Americans with Disabilities Act
 (ADA)?
 The language of the American's with Disabilities Act
 was written in broad terms and therefore, most illnesses are
 included. Contact the Job Accommodation Network to learn more
 about the ADA, how it applies to your work situation and what
 is required of the employee and employer to be in compliance
 with the law.

<l>
 The Job Accommodation Network (JAN) is a free service of the
 U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Disability Employment Policy,
 and provides information about job accommodations, the Americans
 with Disabilities Act (ADA), and the employability of people
 with disabilities. You can call the JAN via toll free numbers
 and speak to a counselor about your situation. 

<l>41. Is there a list of insurance companies that cover lupus?

 The LFA doesn't have a list of insurance companies that write
 policies for people with chronic or preexisting conditions.
 Every state has different insurance regulations. We urge you
 to contact the State Department of Insurance for information
 on health or life insurance coverage in the state where you
 live. Discuss with them the particulars of your situation to
 find out your options. Contact information for U.S. State Departments
 of Insurance is available at: http://www.naic.org/state_contacts/sid_websites.htm

<l>42. Financial Assistance Can the Lupus Foundation of America
 (LFA) provide financial assistance to individuals in need?

 Unfortunately, the Foundation is not set up to provide individuals
 with financial assistance. We may, however, be able to refer
 you to other agencies or organizations that can be of help.
 We encourage you to contact your nearest LFA Chapter as they
 may be able to assist you in locating local resources. You also
 can contact your county Department of Social Services to find
 out about available services in your area. 

<l>Can the LFA help me pay for my prescription medications? 
 If
 you are having difficulty paying for medications to treat your
 lupus, there may be assistance available through the Pharmaceutical
 Researchers and Manufacturers Association (PhRMA). PhRMA sponsors
 a program that provides prescription medications free to physicians
 whose patients might not otherwise have access to necessary
 medications. The Directory of Prescription Drug Patient Assistance
 Programs lists member companies of PhRMA that participate, medications
 covered, and eligibility criteria. If you meet the criteria,
 the pharmaceutical company will send the medication to your
 doctor, who will dispense it to you. Further information is
 available at the PhRMA web page: The Directory of Prescription
 Drug Patient Assistance Programs Consult your physician to determine
 if you are eligible to access any medications through this program.
 

<l>Does the Lupus Foundation of America have a scholarship program
 to help students with lupus pay for college/training? 
 The
 LFA does not have a scholarship or any other form of financial
 aid available to students. Financial aid information is available
 at the following web sites: 

<l>The LFA DOES have the Gina Finzi Memorial Student Summer Fellowships
 for Research Related to Lupus Erythematosus. This program is
 designed to encourage young science majors (undergraduates,
 graduate and medical students) to participate in lupus related
 research under the supervision of an established investigator.
 Preference is given to applicants who have already earned a
 college degree. The application deadline is February 1st of
 each year and awards are announced each April. For further information
 and application materials, see the LFA Research section of this
 site. 

<l>43. Can people with lupus qualify for Social Security Disability?

 Lupus affects everyone differently. Not everyone is disabled
 by lupus. A diagnosis of lupus does not automatically entitle
 a person to disability benefits. The Social Security Administration
 recognizes systemic lupus erythematosus as a potentially disabling
 illness and includes SLE in their listing of impairments. 

<l>What do I need to do to apply?
 First, ask your doctor if in
 his/her opinion you are disabled according to the definition
 used by the Social Security Administration. 

<l>Disability definition: the inability to engage in any substantial
 gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical
 or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death
 or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous
 period of not less than 12 months. 

<l>
 Second, contact your nearest Social Security Administration
 office and request all information (brochures/pamphlets) and
 forms to apply for SSDI (Social Security Disability Insurance).
 They are listed in your phone book. You also can call their
 toll-free number, 1-800-772-1213, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.
 any business day. 

<l>How do I know if I am eligible for Social Security Disability?
 
 SSDI is an insurance plan supported through payroll deduction
 (FICA withholding tax) that covers most workers in the U.S.
 Eligibility is based on prior work. You must be under age 65
 and have worked long enough and recently enough to be eligible
 to apply. The Social Security Administration's web site has
 a Benefit Eligibility Screening Tool (BEST) that can help you
 identify all the benefits you may be eligible for. 

<l>What if I am disabled but have not worked long enough or recently
 enough to be eligible for SSDI? There is another disability
 program, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), which provides
 benefits to the needy and disabled who have not worked long
 enough or recently enough to be eligible for SSDI. 

<l>I've heard that it is almost impossible to get disability. Is
 this true? Applying for and receiving Social Security Disability
 can be difficult and time consuming; it can take up to a year
 or longer. You must prove your disability. It requires work
 on your part to manage your claim and to make sure that your
 application is COMPLETE. It is crucial that you provide thorough
 information so the people who review your claim fully understand
 the impact your lupus, and other illnesses, have on your ability
 to work, and your ability to perform daily functions at home.
 The Social Security Administration (SSA) must justify the disability
 payments they make. If the forms submitted do not prove to their
 satisfaction that you are disabled, then the SSA can not justify
 paying benefits, and you will be denied. On the other hand,
 a claim that is well documented and supported with complete
 information likely will provide the justification needed for
 payment of benefits. 

<l>
 If you are denied, do not take it personally. A denial is only
 a notice that the information you provided does not prove you
 are disabled. There is an appeals process. We encourage everyone
 to follow thorough with the appeal. It is an opportunity for
 you to submit further information to prove you are disabled.
 
 Reference: Disability Handbook for Social Security Applicants,
 Fifth Edition, by Douglas M. Smith (2000). 

<l>
 To assist people in completing their application for disability,
 the Lupus Foundation of America has available the Disability
 Handbook for Social Security Applicants. Written by attorney
 Douglas Smith, this recently revised and expanded Disability
 Handbook shows how to prove to the Social Security Administration
 that you qualify for benefits. The Disability Handbook for Social
 Security Applicants is written for the claimant (disabled adult
 workers under the age of 65) to use as a guide when applying
 for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. It
 is also useful for disabled adults claiming Supplemental Security
 Income (SSI). This user-friendly softbound handbook walks you
 through the disability application process and includes all
 the worksheets needed to complete an application in a timely
 manner. (137 pp., revised and expanded in 2000.) 

<l>
 The handbook is available through the LFA Store, and may be
 available through your nearest Chapter at a discount. 

<l>I've just been denied disability benefits by Social Security.
 What do I do?  Don't take it personally. A denial is only a
 notice that the information you provided so far does not prove
 you are disabled. There is an appeals process. We encourage
 everyone to follow through with an appeal. It is an opportunity
 for you to submit further information to help prove you are
 disabled. You must appeal within 60 days. 

<l>
 If your first appeal is denied, then you can pursue a second
 appeal where you will have a hearing before an administrative
 law judge. We generally recommend that if you progress to this
 level that you have an attorney familiar with disability law
 represent you. 
 Reference: Disability Handbook for Social Security
 Applicants, Fifth Edition, by Douglas M. Smith (2000). 

<l>How can I find an attorney who specializes in disability law?
 
 The National Organization of Social Security Claimants Representatives
 (NOSSCR) has a geographic listing of lawyers that specialize
 in disability cases. They can refer you to an attorney in your
 area. You may reach them during Eastern business hours by calling:
 1-800-431-2804 http://www.nosscr.org/
 Reference: Disability
 Handbook for Social Security Applicants, Fifth Edition, by Douglas
 M. Smith (2000). 



