
URL: http://www.yarnivore.com/runblog
<h>These songs are true, these days are ours, these tears are free

<h>December 24, 2006

<h>It's Christmastime in the city

<p>A quick update before a longer essay-type post: I am stone-free!
 Yay!

<p>I had the lithotripsy on Tuesday the 19th, and I am told that
 the kidney stone was very soft and was completely pulverized
 by the sound waves. Huzzah! The stent came out at the same time.
 I was in some fairly minor discomfort due to the stent removal;
 the lithotripsy discomfort has been intermittent and mostly
 tolerable. 

<p>My only recourse at this point is to drink lots of water; we'll
 never know about the composition of the stone, because it was
 so completely OBLITERATED that there isn't anything to analyze.
 (I must add that I find this minorly bogus -- I know I analyzed
 lots of crap in chem class that didn't have any visible chunks
 in it -- why can't they just spectroscope my urine?) Ah well.

<p>Thanks for all the many many well wishes! I am very happy to
 have a pain-free Christmas!

<h>December 18, 2006

<h>I live with the fear that my spirit will be broken

<p>Taking a whole lot of risks these days, I certainly am. 

<p>My homework from therapy this week is to notice when I feel fear,
 and to acknowledge it and learn to coexist with it, without
 needing to act in response. I spent a lot of time talking to
 Barbara about how I think fear shaped both my parents' lives,
 and how it really very clearly determined how they parented
 me: My dad was afraid I would turn out like him, so he had to
 protect me from that terrible fate; my mother was afraid she
 would lose me (her mother had thirteen pregnancies, and only
 three children survive) and so had to protect me from everything
 in the world. It's a real wonder that I'm not more nervous than
 I am, I think. 

<p>I've been facing a lot of fear physically -- pain is no picnic,
 as I think Montaigne might've said at some point -- but what
 I've come to realize is that the fear is an emotion, a response
 to a physical state in this case. And since I know what is causing
 the pain, and we have a plan about how to remove the source
 of the pain, it's been pretty easy to master the fear. I tell
 myself, "Yep. Sure do feel afraid. But it's going to be okay
 soon." And the fear dissipates.

<p>The other fear I'm facing is purely emotional. I've fallen wildly,
 madly, solidly in love with a man who lives in San Francisco.
 It's a lot less scary than some relationships I've tackled;
 he loves me too, for one thing. But loving is scary, it just
 is. Figuring out how a new person handles himself; feeling vulnerable
 and exposed and silly -- those problems come with the territory,
 no matter what the relationship looks like. I've got the additional
 stress of his being so far away, though, and learning how to
 negotiate needs long-distance is tricky. 

<p>Technology is helping lots. There's Flickr, and Twitter, and
 blogs, and email, and IM, and text messaging, and gosh -- it
 seems impossible that people ever attempted long-distance relationships
 without all that! But typing *hug* isn't really the same as
 giving or getting one, no matter how emotively I work my keyboard.
 

<p>Which brings me to the other thing that's helping, which is Buddhism
 and meditation. I like that I've got ancient tech and modern
 tech BOTH on my side in this. When I miss him, I remember that
 everything is impermanent. I remember to live in the moment,
 and I am having lots of good moments. I consider that he is
 an *addition* to my life, and every bit of time I get to spend
 with him (in person, on IM, on the phone, reading what he and
 all his clever friends have written online) is a plus; when
 he is not with me, he is simply Not With Me, he hasn't disappeared
 forever. And as I read recently (and am paraphrasing): "The
 relationship is what happens when you are together -- if you
 have doubts and worries and upsetting thoughts when you are
 apart, set those aside and reconsider them when you are both
 there." I'd love to have heard that advice a long, long time
 ago, I tell you what. But I'm very happy that I heard it before
 embarking on a long-distance relationship. 

<p>So. I live in interesting times, but I wouldn't have it any other
 way. 

<h>December 14, 2006

<h>I truly need a year down in New Orleans

<p>Went to see two friends who left NYC for upstate last year, and
 have moved again, to NO, for work; my friend Sondra is teaching
 at UNO, and her husband is a cook. 

<p>I drove down, and Argyle asked immediately if I'd like a drink.
 So he made us Manhattans, deftly and quickly, and suddenly instead
 of sitting in my mom's little apartment hearing about god, I
 was sitting in Uptown New Orleans drinking and eating cheese
 and listening to jazz and catching up with old friends. And
 Argyle works in Algiers, right near the fish market, so he'd
 picked up three pounds of enormous shrimp, and made us New Orleans
 Barbecued Shrimp.

<p>Short method/recipe: Smash a bunch of garlic cloves and put them
 in a baking dish. Shake some good hot sauce over them. Squeeze
 in a few limes, then put the lime halves in as well. Arrange
 shrimp over garlic, etc. When dish is topped up with shrimp,
 squeeze in more lime juice, shake on more hot sauce, sprinkle
 with herbs. Chop up more butter than you think you need and
 cover the dish with it. Bake until shrimp are pink and done.
 Eat with hands, making enormous mess. Remember to suck the heads
 and lick your fingers. Gorge until done. 

<p>We ate the shrimp with local wine (who knew! Local New Orleans
 wine!) which was great. Then we had coffee and Christmas cookies,
 and THEN we went out to the Spotted Cat to hear Va Va Voom,
 my new favorite band. Sat in the bar, drinking bourbon and listening
 to fine, eclectic gypsy jazz, with friends at my side, and cute
 girls playing hot fiddle and sax (and cute guys playing awesome
 accordion and guitars!), and mmmmm.

<p>Maybe Louisiana is not all god and home and family! I forgot!
 Am planning t0p-s33krit trip to New Orleans with lovely new
 boyfriend, NOT TELLING MOM. How fun would that be! ALL THE FUN.

<h>December 13, 2006

<h>Never knew how much that muddy water meant to me

<p>Ah, lordy. I'm in Louisiana, ambivalent homeland. Have been here
 since Monday, here until Friday, having superintense Mom-time.
 It's wildly emotionally exhausting. I took my medicine this
 morning, out of my by-the-day pill container, and was stunned
 that it was only the second morning I'd woken up in Gonzales.
 HOW CAN THAT BE?

<p>I'm feeling a bit more balanced today than I have on Monday or
 Tuesday; my accent has mostly returned, so maybe people are
 not staring Quite So Much (though of course they still stare).
 

<p>There were many stories this morning, over coffee and huevos
 revueltos con chorizo; the hardest part was when my mom confronted
 me over something that's bothered her for three years. When
 she expressed shock and surprise at how unusual my wedding was
 (a long fun story for another day, children), my dear friend
 Todd (who has known me since I was 14) said to her, "What? Did
 you not KNOW your daughter was weird?" 

<p>In fact, she did not. This is not because I wasn't always weird,
 but because she has never quite understood who I was or what
 I was like. She has just always totally ignored anything about
 me that didn't fit in with what she wanted to believe, and so
 yeah, she was surprised when there was a sort of WHOLE DAY of
 bizarre wonderful weirdness. (For the record, my wedding was
 one of the Very Best Parties I have ever thrown, and to my knowledge,
 the only person, out of nearly a hundred, who didn't have a
 good time was my mom. Eh. That's a pretty good success rate!)

<p>So. The fascinating stories I heard today *from* my mom, though,
 bear typing out. I guess the main one was about her courtship
 and marriage to my father; I'd heard bits of this story lots
 of times, but this time I got the whole thing in one go, and
 there were many amazing details. 

<p>But! Yikes! My Very Limited Internet Time is up -- I have to
 go be a good daughter. But I want to write this down! But but
 but. 

<p>NB: My mother is now aware enough of the internet to think that
 it is frightening. *sigh*

<h>December 04, 2006

<h>I've got your old ID and you're all dressed up like the Cure

<p>It's me! I'm home! Yay!

<p>Francis did a rather brilliant job of providing updates, so I'm
 here to give you the final score and the color commentary. 

<p>Sunday afternoon I saw a urologist who told me that because the
 kidney stone was so fucking enormous (or words to that effect),
 there was no chance in hell I'd pass it on my own, and they'd
 have to pulverize it. In the meantime, however, my kidney was
 near exploding, because the stone was blocking my ureter (hence
 all the WILDLY EXCRUCIATING PAIN OMG). So he felt he should
 put in a stent to open up the passage. 

<p>My first reaction upon hearing this was, "Hmm. That sounds plausible.
 I wonder what Google has to say about it?" But I was in the
 ER with NO GOOGLE and had to make a medical decision just using
 the brain in my head, instead of relying on the lobe of my brain
 I keep in the ether. I said "Hell yes" and he told me he'd do
 it at 7pm. The procedure itself was Not So Bad, although I felt
 a bit shaky just before it -- the sort of shaky with repeating
 thoughts of "I have just signed a consent form to let them put
 WHAT? WHERE? Dude!" But it all went just fine. 

<p>Afterwards I got my first full night's sleep in several days,
 even with a catheter and a IV drip -- it was Just That Good
 to be not in pain and in a real bed. My room-mate tells me (because
 *her* medical problem and treatments kept her up all night)
 that not only did I snore (probably because I was heavily drugged
 and flat on my back) but that I also talked in my sleep. Something
 about someone who "had no respect". I wish I knew more! The
 idea of things I say in my sleep *fascinates* me. 

<p>This morning was all straightforward; I had a list of things
 to accomplish before they'd let me out. They removed the catheter,
 I had breakfast, I peed on my own (yay!), I saw the urologist.
 And then they gave me some prescriptions and let me go. Wheeeeeee!
 I have never been so happy to brush my teeth, or take a hot
 shower, or lie on my own dear couch knitting. Mmmmm. 

<p>The lithotripsy is going to be in a couple of weeks, when I get
 back from a short trip to DC and a longer trip to see my mom.
 He could have done it on Wednesday, but said that since the
 stent-insertion is a little traumatic, and lithotripsy is a
 little traumatic, he'd rather space them out more, and having
 the stent in for two weeks is not a big deal. I'm not in any
 kidney-related pain at all anymore, so I'm inclined to agree.
 

<p>THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU for all the nice notes and calls
 and everything -- it's made the whole thing a little more bearable
 to be able to remember that My Team is enormous and loving and
 wonderful, and the kidney stone is just a little 7mm scrap of
 mineral. We will vanquish the fucker!

<p>There are many funny human-interest anecdotes I could relate,
 but I should go lie back down on the couch. Here's one, though.
 My room-mate, Peggy, was 63, a lifelong Windsor Terrace resident
 (she lives right around the corner from me). She said very sweet,
 but slightly strange, things to me all night and morning. "Are
 you a writer? You have a beautiful vocabulary," is one example.
 This morning she sat chatting with me about her life, which
 I drew her out on. Somewhere in there she asked, "So, is that
 goth? What you do with your hair and that little earring over
 your eye?" I let her know that I've got my own thing going on,
 and it doesn't so much have a name. (^_^)

<h>December 03, 2006

<h>The drums march along at the clip of an IV drip

<p>Hello again, everyone -- Rose is still "in hospital", as they
 say "across the pond", so it continues (albeit not for much
 longer) to fall to me to bring you updates. She's had the stent
 put in and is, at the moment, catheterized, so that the incredible
 amount of saline solution they've been pumping into her will
 have somewhere to go. Everything seems to have gone perfectly
 smoothly, and when I left, she had shaken off the anesthesia
 and was chilling out comfortably with a book on her Palm Pilot.

<p>The catheter comes out in the morning, and then she'll be discharged
 not long after, and should be home a little before noon tomorrow.
 The night nurse, Irving, confirmed (or so it sounded) that her
 lithotripsy appointment (to break up the stone) will be on Wednesday;
 in most cases that procedure doesn't require an overnight stay,
 and hopefully that will hold true in Rose's case.

<h>This is our emergency

<p>Hello, everyone. Francis here, with an update about the state
 of the Rose. We spent another night in the ER -- this one didn't
 have the same bureaucratic hellpit sort of feel that Tuesday
 night's visit had, but it still took forever for Rose to be
 seen by a doctor, because apparently there's never really a
 good night to go to the emergency room -- and, in fact, Rose
 is still in the process of spending the night there. But I get
 ahead of myself.

<p>Rose has been having some pretty intense kidney pain over the
 past couple days, which we and her doctor have been assuming
 is to do with the post-strep inflammation that was previously
 diagnosed. She's been on Percocet for the pain, which was helping
 tremendously, but then this afternoon, while we were at the
 Brooklyn Museum, the pain went through the roof, and the Percocet
 didn't help at all. Rose called Dr. Carpenter, who apologetically
 said, yeah, you need to go to the emergency room, I'm afraid.
 We called all the car services in the area, none of whom had
 cars available, and our friend Adam came to the rescue and picked
 us up at the museum. Mostly my reaction to learning that someone
 owns a car in New York City is a kind of aghast awe, like, "Whoa,
 you wrestle cobras for a living? That's intense," but I can
 see how it comes in handy now and again, and thank goodness
 some of our friends are willing to bite that bullet.

<p>Anyway, they finally found Rose a room in the ER, and I'm sure
 she will have many details to relate upon her return about the
 nice medical student who was very bad at putting in an IV, etc.,
 but the upshot is, they gave her a CAT scan (and -- after much
 anticipation -- some pain medication that worked) and she's
 got a rather big kidney stone (7 mm) in her right kidney. This
 would also account for all the symptoms she's been having, so
 it seems quite possible that the whole strep thing was a red
 herring. We'll see.

<p>So she's been admitted to the hospital, and is waiting for a
 bed to open up so they can move her upstairs from her nook in
 the emergency room. Until about an hour ago, she and I were
 both napping uncomfortably in her room, and when we both awoke
 from our fitful slumbers she firmly sent me on my way to get
 some sleep that could not be described as "in a swivel chair
 leaning on a sink". Happily, right before I left, Rose noticed
 that the reclined chair which she had been having a not-very-comfortable
 time sleeping in looked like the sort of thing that could be
 adjusted, and I managed to figure out the controls (having played
 many Myst games, and thus being very practiced at figuring out
 mysterious machines that don't come with instructions) and make
 it be more flat and horizontal, the better to keep her comfortable
 and able to sleep until they get her to a real bed.

<p>There will be more to report in a little while (I would say "tomorrow
 morning", but it is already 6:30 a.m.), when Rose sees the urologist.
 Probably what will happen is that they will do they thing where
 they break up the kidney stone by shooting sound waves at it.
 No idea how quickly they'll be able to get the procedure done.
 Hopefully, Rose will be home in time to write the next update
 herself. Wish her luck.

<h>November 30, 2006

<h>I piece by piece replace myself and the steel and circuits will
 make me whole

<p>Update!

<p>I was getting better, but now I'm feeling worse. It's the same
 thing, and my doctor still thinks it's nothing to "worry" about,
 while at the same time starting me on a diuretic and an antibiotic,
 and giving me Percocet for pain.

<p>Because, you see, I am in a lot of pain. (Not at the moment --
 Percocet, yay!) But last night, and then again just now: WORST
 PAIN OF MY LIFE. Who knew kidneys could cause so much pain?
 I mean, I know kidney stones made Montaigne want to die, and
 I know that people are always getting sucker-kicked in the kidneys
 in movies. But dude, seriously: You do not want your kidneys
 fucked up. 

<p>Here's the thing. I have trouble asking for people to take care
 of me when I'm sick, due to all sorts of stuff too wearisome
 to go into. But even I can tell that NOW IS THE TIME TO ASK.
 

<p>I would like to be fussed over, please. Send me funny links to
 things, call, email, IM me if I'm online. I'm sick, and kind
 of not-so-secretly-worried that this is seriouser than we hope
 it will be, and even if it is going to resolve soon, it still
 sucks HORRIBLY. It's scary to feel this bad.

<p>[NB: I think the above is all in coherent English, but I am *stoned*
 on Percocet right now.]

<h>November 29, 2006

<h>Well, I'm fine, I'm alright, it's just me, you should expect
 it by now

<p>Came home from my wonderful Thanksgiving in Boston pissing blood.
 Freaked out, called doctor, went in. She took a bunch of lab
 samples and told me we'd know more Real Soon Now. Yesterday
 (Tuesday) I felt crappy but acceptable. But yesterday night
 I was having symptoms of high blood pressure (ringing in my
 ears, dizziness, headache) and she told me to go into the ER.
 She was very apologetic, and with good reason: I ended up spending
 the entire night there, twelve full hours. 

<p>I'm not writing about this just to whinge, though. A miraculous
 thing happened last night. I endured the strain of twelve hours
 in the emergency room with emotional strength and good humor,
 and it is all because of the meditating. I feel kind of humble,
 that it's taken me 35 years to learn to actually be smart.

<h>November 24, 2006

<h>Get me on the boil and reduce me to a simmering wreck with a
 slow kiss to the back of my neck

<p>Oh, so much laughter, so much cooking, so much love. What a wonderful
 day yesterday was, start to finish!

<p>Here are notes on dinner, which Debby and I think may be our
 best Thanksgiving effort EVAR. Subtitled "How you can tell that
 although we have assimilated, Todd and I were raised in the
 wilds of south Louisiana."

<p>Snack was lovely paté, brought by new parents Josh and Judy.
 We'd told them they only needed to bring themselves, but they
 decided to show that they can still shop with the cleverest
 of them. V. yummy.

<p>Throughout the day, Debby and I were somehow in seekrit competition
 to see which of us could suggest the most outrageous use of
 animal fat in our dinner. I think perhaps each was hoping to
 shock the other, to push boundaries until the other said No!
 We cannot do that! But we never reached that point, and the
 results were astounding.

<p>We started out by frying breakfast sausage in butter, for the
 cornbread stuffing. Then we saved the butter/porkfat to use
 to a.) baste the turkey, and b.) sub in for butter in the biscuits.
 Mmmmm.

<p>Here's our menu: 

<p>Heirloom turkey, brined with salt, sugar, and peppercorns, basted
 in butter and porkfat. Wild success. 

<p>Cornbread dressing, included sausage, half-and-half, and a bunch
 of very usual ingredients. So delicious.

<p>Mashed potatoes and celery root. The celery root adds a bit of
 sweetness and lightness to the potatoes. Perfection.

<p>Gravy. I minced up the offal (just heart and liver) and added
 in the bits of meat from the neck, which we'd made stock with
 (and added in some duck stock Debby just HAPPENED TO HAVE in
 her freezer). The gravy was thickened with a bit of cornstarch.
 Best gravy we've ever made. Rich, dark, meaty -- she and I were
 ready to pack in everything else and just dip biscuits in gravy
 for dinner.

<p>Biscuits. Buttermilk biscuits from my favorite recipe (which
 I shall try to remember to transcribe). V. simple. But added
 in the porkfat to the called-for butter, which made them extra
 special this time. God, I love biscuits. 

<p>Collard greens. Cooked down with bacon, with a bit of homemade
 Inner Beauty hot sauce added for piquancy. These were bitter
 green perfection.

<p>Squash. Butternut and acorn squash, baked with butter, mashed
 with maple syrup and soy sauce. A last minute addition to the
 menu because Debby was AFRAID THERE WOULDN'T BE ENOUGH FOOD,
 because she is just that sort of cook. And I love her for it,
 because if we hadn't made the squash we wouldn't have had the
 cooing and fussing and moaning that ensued as we ate the squash.
 

<p>Dessert was pecan pie, made properly by Todd, with cane syrup
 in addition to dark Karo syrup. I'll dig up his recipe sometime;
 and also, caramel pumpkin tart, from the current issue of Gourmet,
 which turned out splendidly. Sort of a deep-dish pumpkin pie.
 I subbed in Todd's favorite pie crust recipe, as I did not have
 my own handy, and it was great, and clearly better than the
 requested one. We also grated fresh ginger in addition to powdered.
 Mmmm.

<p>Josh and Judy also brought us ginger ice cream and pumpkin ice
 cream, from the local dairy in their town. Again, we'd have
 made do without this, but how could we refuse to let them contribute,
 even though their beautiful infant is only TWO WEEKS OLD. The
 ice cream really made the dessert course -- they were perfect
 with the pies. 

<p>Oh we were full. Stuporous. Sat around reading a Taschen book
 of atrocious and wonderful ads from the 70s, which continually
 made us ask, "Magazines thought that was okay to run? Good lord!"

<p>And we laughed and we laughed all day, about nothing and everything,
 and it was a perfect day. One of many in my future, I am certain.
 

<h>November 23, 2006

<h>So sign me up, if you're offering another dance

<p>It's Thanksgiving, and as I have a lot to be thankful for right
 now, I thought I'd get on that.

<p>Attentive folks might have noticed that the tenor of my posts
 has changed significantly over the last couple of months, and
 it's true: I'm happy!

<p>This morning I had a lovely omen: I woke up, rested and content,
 and saw my husband sleeping and was filled with love. I watched
 him sleep for a couple minutes, then reached over to check my
 clock, just as my alarm was about to go off. [Alarm on holiday
 due to need to COOK COOK COOK.] I win!

<p>The nature of my happiness goes much deeper than that, though.
 Here's how I see it: For the last several years, I have been
 standing on one side of an enormous chasm, thinking that things
 would be better on the other side. Every so often I gear up
 and toss myself across, without quite enough momentum to make
 it, and down I tumble onto the rocks. With great effort I crawl
 back to my starting point, wait awhile, then get to looking
 at the chasm thinking, "Huh. I think it'd be better OVER THERE."

<p>This time I finally worked up enough speed and force and will
 to make it all the way over! I am on the other side, and I am
 here to tell you: THE GRASS IS GREENER. 

<p>The thing that's so different is that instead of fixing the proximal
 problem, then sitting around waiting for a new problem, which
 has been my MO for oh-so-long, I've finally fixed the main thing
 that's been wrong, my inability to actually appreciate how much
 there is about my life that is truly wonderful.

<p>So I'm thankful for the meta thing, but here's what I'm thankful
 for right now in particular: 

<p>My health. I know that'll sound a bit nuts, as I've been having
 some problems, but really, on the whole, I am very healthy.
 And someday I'll be less healthy than I am now. And right now,
 I can do yoga and walk in the park and travel and get around
 town and have sex and basically do everything I want to do with
 my body, with only very minor limitations. Yay!

<p>My work. I love copyediting, and I love that I get to do it for
 pay. I also love doing it for special friends and good causes,
 and there's been some of that this year, too, and that makes
 me feel really good.

<p>My city. Every time I think I couldn't possibly love NYC more,
 I discover something new about it that I adore completely. I
 am home.

<p>My friends. Brilliant, talented, compassionate, funny -- they
 stand by me through ridiculous trials with good grace, they
 celebrate my happiness with pure joy -- I have the best friends
 in the world. 

<p>My lovers. Polyamory has been quite an adventure, but I have
 learned really important stuff even from the relationships that
 seem to have not worked out. Furthermore, right now all my poly
 is INSANELY POSITIVE poly, and I am deliriously happy. And everyone
 likes everyone and there's this whole networked chosen family
 radical community thing going on and OMG I'm making the life
 I want to live. Yes I am. 

<p>My husband. The most important person in my life, the hub of
 my universe, my companion and friend and lover and entertainment
 committee chairman: I have chosen wisely. 

<p>Yes, truly, I am in love with the world. Filled with bliss. That's
 tempered with understanding how I got here, of course, but that
 makes it all the more precious. 

<h>November 15, 2006

<h>When I was an itty-bitty baby my mama would rock me in my cradle

<p>So, as promised, more noodling about my mom. 

<p>A few years ago I had a flash of insight that started me along
 the path to better understanding and forgiving my mom for my
 childhood. I think I was about 31, and having some health problems
 of my own, and I suddenly realized that at 31, my mom had kidney
 stones. Now if you get kidney stones, it still surely sucks,
 but they blast them out with sound waves and give you some dietary
 advice and you go on your way. When my mom got them, it was
 1976. Hers were far-advanced, and stuck in her kidneys themselves.
 She had two operations, each of which left an enormous bisecting
 scar around her middle. She was in hospital for weeks at a time,
 recuperating. She was only 31, barely spoke English, had a five-year-old
 daughter and an intermittently employed husband, and lived in
 a trailer. This was not her beautiful life, the one she thought
 she was signing up for when the handsome American fell madly
 in love with her.

<p>I remembered/realized all that, and I was filled with so much
 compassion for her. My heart nearly broke, thinking about how
 hard her life turned out to be, after she'd thought it was All
 Going To Be Okay. I gave the rest of my childhood more thought,
 and really felt how hard it had all been, my dad reclusive and
 odd, the penny-pinching, me being strange and bookish. And the
 endless health problems. On top of which, she was clearly manic-depressive.
 So she'd freak out, get anxious and twitchy and irritable, and
 clean the house top to bottom, yell at me and Daddy, and then
 collapse in a pile of tears, begging our forgiveness. And that
 was all *before* she was crippled by rheumatoid arthritis, or
 incapacitated by endometriosis. 

<p>Feeling that compassion for my mother softened me a lot, and
 made it easier to bear my disappointment at how our relationship
 has gone. But part of me resented this. Part of me felt like,
 "I am making this huge effort to understand my mother, and she
 is doing nothing of the sort! She isn't trying at all! Fuck
 this!" I felt superior, and I felt hurt, and it was all kind
 of shitty. 

<p>I started seeing a new therapist this fall, and one of the first
 things that came up was my discussion with her of my changing
 feelings toward my mother. I explained that I used to be barely
 able to stand my mom, that she upset me so badly I couldn't
 contemplate her, but that this had shifted, because I now understand
 how hard her life was when I was growing up, and I forgive her.
 Barbara looked at me levelly, and asked, "So how was it for
 you?" I said it was uncomfortable, unpleasant. She looked at
 me with a whole universe of sadness, and said, "I hardly think
 a five-year-old would use the words 'unpleasant' or 'uncomfortable'.
 How was it for you, growing up around her?"

<p>And I lost it. 

<p>I started sobbing, and I told her how terrified of my mother
 I'd been. How she would shout, and I wouldn't ever know what
 I'd done wrong, because I always tried *so hard* to do everything
 right. How my teachers were always full of praise for me, and
 I often wished I could just live at school. How I decided she
 was unreliable, and not-to-be-trusted, and how I'd try as best
 I could to avoid her. And the whole time I cried. 

<p>Barbara explained that until I can confront my own sadness around
 all that, it's never going to get better. That learning how
 to *not run away* from that sadness, my ur-sadness, really,
 is one of the big keys to making sure that I never have to go
 through all the crap, the depressions and anxieties and insecurities
 and mood troubles and fear, ever again. 

<p>She also explained that it wasn't fair, that little children
 deserve to have mothers they can run *to*, not *from*, and that
 my anger and resentment at my mom are a natural reaction. My
 intellectual forgiveness, my understanding of *why* she acted
 as she did, is a good start, but I also have to forgive myself
 for having hated her and being afraid of her.

<p>It has turned out that the one session was a sort of emotional
 tipping point, that it shifted my whole understanding of my
 relationship with my mom. I've been doing a lot of work with
 sitting with my difficult emotions, and it's all been incredibly
 productive. I'm not running away anymore. And the talks I had
 with my mom last week are one result. 

<h>November 13, 2006

<h>This house is full of, full of, full of fight!

<p>[x-posted from LJ, for maximal coverage -- comment wherever you
 like]

<p>Well, I've had some unsettling news today. I had a bad pap smear
 a couple of months ago, and then followed that up with a colposcopy
 last week, which is a biopsy procedure. I've got high-grade
 cervical dysplasia, and will be having an in-office surgical
 procedure (LEEP) the first week of January. 

<p>I can see that my future includes becoming a vocal advocate of
 HPV vaccination for young'uns. If we're willing to vaccinate
 kids to keep them from getting fucking CHICKEN POX, why aren't
 we vaccinating them to keep them from getting cervical cancer,
 or having scary surgical procedures? Because it involves sex.
 

<p>Gah, sometimes I hate my country. But I am going to change the
 world, yes I am, oh yes.

<p>(I should make clear that I feel *really lucky* right now. I
 have clever, kind doctors involved in my care, who are totally
 cool with me being a pervert (we discussed what my sex dos and
 don'ts for January include), and I have really decent insurance,
 and this "dysplasia" is ten years off from being cancer. It's
 serious, but it's going to be okay.)

<h>November 12, 2006

<h>Mama thinks she spoilt me rotten

<p>Had a great talk with my mom this morning. That's not the most
 surprising thing in the world for most folks, I suppose, but
 we're talking about My Mom here, not the Platonic Ideal of Mom.
 

<p>It's particularly surprising because she was Crazy Bugfuck Furious
 with me just a few days ago. But we sorted it out. 

<p>Okay, now that I've made it all dramatic, I'll tell the story
 properly. As my most faithful or newly obsessed readers will
 no doubt remember, my mom was dreadfully sick last year. She's
 been much better, but never quite what a healthy person would
 call well, in the year since. The last couple of months she's
 been suffering from urinary tract infections, and her doctor's
 been putting her on various antibiotics to combat this. However,
 none of them really worked, and he finally told her that if
 she had another positive urine specimen, he'd have to hospitalize
 her for a few days to try a regimen of IV antibiotics. We talked
 that day, and she said that if she didn't call back that night,
 she was in the hospital.

<p>Well, I *intended* to call her in the hospital. I swear I did.
 But every time I thought about her (and I thought about her
 a lot those few days) it was first thing in the morning or last
 thing at night, and even with a one-hour time difference it
 was still too late to call. She wasn't in for *very* long, three
 or four days, and I'd just that morning had another round of
 "Oh crap, I really ought to give Mama a call," when that afternoon
 I saw her on my caller ID. I picked it up and gave her a cheery,
 "Hey! Mama! You're home!" 

<p>Nice try.

<p>She was so mad at me, oh man. She was doing her full-on impersonation
 of a stereotypical Jewish mother, which I always find comical
 in her wild idiolect/accent. "It's okay. I'm fine. I don't care.
 I know you're busy and you don't have time for your old mother.
 I could've been dead in there. But it's okay." Sigh. 

<p>However, what I chose to do this time was very different from
 what I've done in the past. Instead of arguing with her about
 how really I don't suck ass as a daughter and why does she have
 to be such a martyr and honestly, she could have called me --
 instead, I said, "Wow, you sound really upset." So she tried
 again to guilt-trip me, and I said, "You really wanted me to
 call, and I didn't, and I hurt your feelings -- I'm really sorry."
 So she tried again. And I answered again. "You feel like I don't
 care about you, and I wasn't thinking about you, and that's
 really painful."

<p>And she gave up. And she told me how she felt terrified and alone
 in the hospital, and how much she'd have liked to hear my voice,
 and that we're all each other has left now, and she'd been scared
 and sad. And I told her how sorry I was that I'd made her feel
 that way, because I'd been thinking about her lots, but she
 just had no way of knowing if I didn't call. And she laughed
 and said, "No, honey, I can't read your mind." And then she
 started telling me about the endless party that her hospital
 stay had been (because of her work with the Mexican immigrant
 community in Gonzales, she is actually never at a loss for hordes
 of loving friends and chosen family and toddling cherubs). Flowers,
 food, children, her pastor, too many people for the hospital
 room and the nurses complained. 

<p>But what she wanted was me, and I let her down, and so even in
 the midst of plenty, she felt totally abandoned and alone. I
 feel like a heel, but I also feel like we've had a breakthrough.
 Because I acknowledged how she felt, she gave up on just being
 explosively angry, and talked about her feelings -- something
 she's historically been really super bad at. And I'll do better
 next time. 

<p>Gee, I wonder where I get my emotional pathology from? 

<p>----

<p>This morning, I gave her a call because it was my dad's birthday.
 He'd have been seventy-six today. She was sad, but appropriately
 so, not a basket case. And so I told her something I've never
 mentioned to her, because she and I had grieved for Daddy so
 differently. I told her that sometimes in my dreams I hang out
 with Daddy, and we chat and drink coffee and just shoot the
 shit, and I always wake up from those dreams really happy. (Honestly,
 that happiness is both profound *and* a little bittersweet,
 but my mom's not one for emotional nuance, so I left that out.)
 She loved hearing that, and went on about how those we lose
 are never really gone, and I found myself not-irritated with
 her, because even though we have thoroughly different beliefs
 about what happens after you die, I'd just said myself that
 I feel my dad's presence continuing in my life despite his death.
 So I kept my big trap shut and let her talk, and it was nice.
 Familial. 

<p>Maybe she and I will work this whole being-related thing out
 before one us dies. That would be *so* cool.

<h>November 10, 2006

<h>When will we ever learn?

<p>I have approximately eleventy-seven blog entries queued up in
 my head, but alls you're getting right now is a little thinking
 I was doing a couple of days ago.

<p>I've got some gorgeous morning glories a couple of blocks away
 around the corner from my house. Last year I meant to harvest
 seeds from them to try to grow them in my yard, but forgot.
 I've been taking their portraits all summer and fall, just go
 look at my Flickr sets. 

<p>This year I've been waiting and waiting to harvest seeds, and
 reminding myself to look for them. But months have gone by and
 no seeds! Finally I realized that the plants don't actually
 set seeds until the fall, when the flowers stop coming so prolifically.
 Something, I dunno, scientific/botanical about how many hours
 of light and all that sort of thing. 

<p>What this means, though, is that while I have been enjoying the
 current flowers, I've been so looking forward to growing my
 own, next year, that I haven't been paying attention to the
 reality of this year's batch. One black mark against me. But
 I feel I am making up for that with my new observation: The
 present crop of morning glories has to die in order for the
 seeds to set for future plants. You can't get to the future
 without letting the present die, is what I'm saying. 

<p>What was that? Buddhist teachings about death and impermanence?
 In the flower garden around the way? I think this means the
 dharma is wherever you look for it.

<p>I would fuss about how I'm getting so philosophical and shit,
 since I find it mildly embarrassing, but it's unbelievably wonderful!
 Everything feels so joyous and calm. 

<h>October 24, 2006

<h>If you don't get my letter then you'll know that I'm in jail

<p>Tonight, after another brilliant acupuncture appointment, I went
 over to ABC No Rio to send books to prisoners. I did this for
 the first time a few weeks ago, and I've got it planned into
 my schedule now as a regular thing. I'd been meaning to do it
 for months 'n' months, as it is on the Nonsense list every week,
 and it was a cause I supported, but it wasn't until I was so
 miserable in September that I was able to get my act together.
 Four things happened: I independently had the idea that "Gee,
 a lot of people are much worse off than I am, me with my first-world
 problems," and then I read the suggestion to volunteer in books
 about both Buddhism and anxiety/depression, and then Katje reminded
 me that volunteering is good for cheering oneself up, and then
 I read David Feige's book Indefensible, about being a public
 defender in the Bronx. How could I resist all that?

<p>It's amazing work. They've got a room full of books that have
 been donated, and a box full of letters from prisoners, and
 you take a letter, read it, and try to find some books for the
 person. Just about every letter gets me right in the gut. Tonight
 I had a letter from a guy who said that his prison had a small
 library, but that now that he's finished his GED, he isn't even
 allowed to use it. WTF? We had some history books that fit his
 request, and we sent those along. Most satisfying request to
 fill tonight was the guy who asked for books about Celtic stuff,
 Gaelic, anything Irish. We actually had a book on Celtic mythology
 *and* an Irish-English/English-Irish dictionary (which had some
 grammar exercises in it). Dude.

<p>In other news, the perennials I planted are doing splendidly.
 I *know* that fall is a fine time to plant, and so I ordered
 the plants, but I had a moment of doubt when they came and it
 was a chilly morning and I thought, "What am I doing?" But we
 are in zone 7, and furthermore, the weather has cooperated perfectly,
 with lots of rain and sunshine interspersed, and a few more
 warm days before the chill set in. We shouldn't have even a
 frost for another couple of weeks, and in the meantime, the
 hostas are putting out new leaves (which suggests that they
 are putting down new roots as well) and the black mondo grass
 looks extremely healthy. I'll have to get a couple of pictures
 in situ. 

<h>October 17, 2006

<h>It's so hard to risk another these days

<p>Hello from the land of constant sleep deprivation! It's great
 here, you'll like it, you can be woozy and cheery while still
 passing drug tests! Terrific stuff.

<p>Seriously, though, 9-5 can kiss my flat ass. On the other hand,
 every single other thing about the current gig rocks, including
 the pay and the colleagues, so I really oughtn't complain. 

<p>Speaking of not complaining, there is much else good in the world
 'round these parts. I bought a loom; therapy is going super
 well; I even planted a few things in our eensy front garden
 (it's about 50 square feet). The new plants are black mondo
 grass and acid green hostas.

<p>I've had a lot of happiness as well as a lot of sadness this
 past week. I'm getting the chance to discover that all the hard
 work I've done in the last couple of months is actually paying
 off. Discovering that, though, makes me sad about not doing
 the work in time to save the last relationship. I'm trying to
 forgive myself. I did the best I could; so did he. It's ridiculously
 early days with my new acquaintance, but I can already see the
 difference in my approach and my emotions. "Whatever will be,
 will be" is a damned fine place to be in. 

<p>[Edited to add what I forgot until the second after I posted:
 Acupuncture has been going brilliantly lately! Today was especially
 amazing, as new points were tried that turned out to have a
 big effect. Me=total convert. *Also* -- the echocardiogram was
 okay, which means there's nothing structurally wrong with my
 heart. Still waiting on the all-day-monitor results. And the
 combo news? At acupuncture today my resting pulse rate *before*
 we started was 75 bpm. We've been doing stuff over the last
 few weeks to try to concentrate on pulse rate and heart matters,
 and that seems to Actually Be Working. Dooooood. How cool is
 that?]

<h>October 08, 2006

<h>Ten miles behind me and ten thousand more to go

<p>The path is the journey, right? So I shouldn't be down on myself
 for getting down. I'm actually feeling a lot better emotionally
 than when I last posted, but now I have a cold (fussfussfuss)
 and have spent the weekend sleeping instead of cavorting in
 the city (where there were a dozen cool things to do over the
 last couple of days). 

<p>The first issue of Craft just showed up yesterday, and I highly
 recommend it (although much of the content is familiar to me,
 since I've been haunting their website all summer -- that shouldn't
 be as much of a problem with future issues). Great stuff to
 lie on the couch and snuffle with. I'm planning to pitch an
 article to them about online community and craft, though I don't
 quite have what I want to say straight in my head yet, and their
 articles are all short, so I need to be punchy and clear. 

<p>Back to the sickcouch. My cat Twyla has been a most excellent
 nurse-cat, which helps a lot. Very attentive. 

<h>October 04, 2006

<h>Sometimes I wish for the warmth of his hand

<p>Some days I feel strong and brave and free, and although I miss
 the boy I lost, it feels okay, it feels wistful but tolerable,
 but the last day or so have been hard. I keep feeling these
 swells of emotion, of loss, and it feels so fresh, as though
 the last time we spent together was just hours ago, and not
 weeks, and I feel overcome with sadness. 

<p>I've tried thinking of ways it could be worse: We could be angry
 with each other; he could be dead. Somehow those aren't as much
 consolation as they could be. 

<p>He and I talked last week, had a kind of post-mortem. It went
 really well; we had a deeper, better talk than I'd have thought
 we could manage, so soon after ending things. We decided to
 take a real break from each other, to not be in touch for six
 months. (I have a friend who said that was very wise, that she's
 always thought the "reset switch" takes six months before it
 works; she also added that a person can hold her breath for
 three months, but no one can hold their breath for six months.
 Six months means you have to go on with your life.) It felt
 right, a good decision, and I still think it's the right decision,
 but oh, I miss him. 

<p>I hate that we couldn't make things work on our first try, or
 our second try. I hate that we might never even decide to take
 a third try. I hate that we had such a wonderful time together,
 but drove each other bugfuck crazy in our various ways. I hate
 that what we had felt so special, so unique, so thoroughly unprecedented,
 and yet now I realize it's just the same thing everyone goes
 through; we love, we lose, we cry. 

<p>I hate that I'm learning an enormous amount about myself, and
 how I interact with the world, and with other people, especially
 lovers, and that it's all a result of the relationship with
 him, but that he may never see the benefit of it. I don't *want*
 to show up on some new lover's doorstep all ready for a mature,
 happy, polyamorous relationship. I want to show up on his. 

<p>And yet I have to let go of wanting to show up on his doorstep
 if I'm to ever get the chance to show up on his doorstep. It's
 my own little koan. 

<p>I think there's a book in this, surviving a breakup by finding
 Buddhism. I'd probably hate myself if I wrote it, though. 

<p>I *miiiiiiiiiiiss* him. I want to talk to him about all the books
 I've read in the last month, and all the cool things I'm up
 to, and all the thinking I've been doing, and I want to hear
 all about what *he's* been doing, and, and, and. And I want
 to lie in his arms and hold him and never let him go. 

<h>I try my best to be just like I am

<p>Well, lordy. Turns out I wasn't actually seeing a *cardiologist*
 today, I was going to the *cardiologist's office* to have procedures
 done. Depending on the results, I'll either follow up with my
 regular doctor, or see the specialist. I suppose that makes
 sense, but I always find "procedures" irritating, because the
 folks who do them will never tell me anything useful. I had
 an echocardiogram, about which I know nothing much yet (although
 my heart did at least cooperate by being speedy in the office;
 my pulse went up to 104 while she was recording). At least the
 tech didn't gasp and run out of the room and bring back a doctor,
 so I'm figuring nothing was spectacularly wrong. 

<p>Then the tech wired me up with a Holter monitor. I'm trying to
 concentrate on how neat it is that I can have a 24-hour recording
 made of my heart without having to spend a night in the hospital,
 but I'm only human, and I have to admit: It's kind of bothersome.
 Here's what it looks like:

<p>Sexy, eh?

<p>I finished the Pema Chödrön book, and I'm going to wait a few
 days and reread it, since I think I need to let the lessons
 from it sink in better than they did on a single reading. It's
 been especially pertinent stuff. I just had another self-help-ish
 book recommended to me, Feeling Good, and I've picked up a copy
 and am going to give it a look-see. Turns out I'm not the first
 person who's gotten to a no-more-talk-therapy point. 

<p>I suppose I've been realizing that I'm not the first person to
 feel *any* of the things I've been feeling lately, which has
 been really grounding. This is how people feel. For nearly 3,000
 years. Just like this. We fall in and out of love, we sustain
 losses, we obsess over the things that fret us, we resist change.
 

<p>Crazy. My life experience has been of thinking of myself as weird
 and unique and different and sui generis; it's a brain-fuck
 to think of myself as *just like everyone else*. But very, very
 calming. 

<h>October 03, 2006

<h>I feel my heart start to tremblin'

<p>So tomorrow I'm going to the cardiologist, and not a minute too
 soon! I was annoyed with my doctor for suggesting it, back on
 the 12th, when my pulse (at rest, after hanging out in her office
 chatting for about 45 minutes) was 108 bpm, but I've been checking
 in on it now and then in the weeks after, and it's often in
 the high 90s, and just now? I was sitting, knitting, feeling
 pretty peaceful, and it's 112. 

<p>Stoopid! 

<p>I'm trying not to freak about this too much, since that seems
 directly counterproductive. I'm just going to let the nice cardiologist
 tell me how concerned to be. They're going to do an echocardiogram,
 and then have me wear a 24-hour Holter monitor. I'm hoping this
 doesn't suck too much. It's keeping me away from yoga for two
 days! Grr. 

<p>----

<p>I have a lot to say about what I've been learning from Buddhist
 teachings, but I don't quite have it in words yet. There's lots
 of amazing stuff in the books I've been reading, though. My
 favorite bit in Pema Chödrön's book When Things Fall Apart
 is her saying "hope kills the future." That sure feels like
 a lesson I need to learn. 

<p>I had been saying for a couple of months that I felt a need for
 a different kind of therapist than the ones I've seen over the
 years, who've all been focused on very standard Northeastern
 eclectic talk therapy. I've spent years learning figuring out
 what makes me who I am, and considering what the deep causes
 of my problems are. I'm all done. Now I want my problems to
 get better, and I want real tools for effecting change. My new
 therapist is Very Different from the ones who've come before
 her, yay! She gives me homework, for one thing, and she advises
 meditation, for another. I feel like I'm finally ready to stop
 running away when I feel bad, and to learn how to tolerate my
 discomfort so that I can make real decisions about how I want
 to react, instead of just reacting instinctually. That would
 be a big change for me, and an exciting one. 

<h>September 29, 2006

<h>There'll be good times again for me and you

<p>Last night Francis and I went to see John Hodgman interview Neil
 Gaiman at FIT. 
 Francis has already written about it in his
 own blog, so I don't need to say too much else, but I'll add
 that John was an inspired choice of interlocuter, and that Neil
 Gaiman is both quick-witted and gracious, and a delight to listen
 to. He read two poems, and since one of them is a BREAKUP POEM
 I'm going to quote it here in its entirety in addition to just
 linking it. A breakup poem that includes zombies. It's like
 he's writing Just for Me. 

<h>September 27, 2006

<h>Kiss me on my salty lips

<p>We just had an utterly amazing anniversary meal at Applewood,
 on 11th Street in Park Slope. 

<p>Amuse-bouche -- uni and heirloom tomato soup

<p>Diver scallop with bacon, red cabbage, and pea-shoot pesto --
 paired with a Pinot Gris

<p>Halibut with garlic “au jus”, bone marrow, and royal trumpet
 mushrooms -- paired with an Alsatian Riesling

<p>Duck-fat poached lamb tenderloin with polenta and roasted daikon
 and turnips -- paired with a Rioja

<p>Amuse-bouche -- mint ice cream on a brownie

<p>Cheese course, with four cheeses I can't remember, but which
 were all fabulous, and went perfectly with the Montepulciano
 they were paired with. 

<p>Poached pear with almond financier and crème fraiche -- paired
 with a Muscat

<p>I really don't have anything to add. I just loved the meal so
 much that I wanted to write it down. Extra points for our adorable
 waiter, who had splendid ink and piercings, and who I hope got
 to have some of the lamb after hours (he told us, after we raved
 about it, "Yeah, we're all totally jealous about that, I won't
 lie").

<h>Loving would be easy if your colors were like my dream

<p>Yay!

<p>Francis was irritated about karma yesterday; he's found a wallet
 and a cell phone over the last few months, and he went to a
 good deal of effort to make sure those made it back to their
 owners. I reminded him that I'd done the same thing just last
 year; someone left a wallet at Yarnivore, and I went home the
 long way so that I could drop it off. But I also told him that
 I didn't think karma was quite so literal; for instance, he
 may be being karmically repaid by having a happy polyamorous
 relationship and good health.

<p>Maybe I spoke too soon? Because someone dropped off my wallet
 last night. Unfortunately, since I never updated my address
 on my driver's license, they dropped it off at my old house.
 But nevertheless, this is fantastic news! We're going to go
 get it today.

<p>It turns out to be a major pain in the ass to prove your identity
 to the DMV. You need six points of identification, and I was
 really scrambling to come up with it, since I'd lost my wallet
 that had a few points in it right there. Glad I don't have to
 deal with it!

<h>September 26, 2006

<h>Now I am the richest man, 'cause all I have are these empty hands

<p>I was already planning to use that line from Kid Beyond's "Deep
 Inside" for a blog post, since it's a Buddhist break-up song,
 and is completely awesome both as a song and a representative
 of a very tiny genre. 

<p>But it's literally meaningful in addition to just being metaphorically
 meaningful today, unfortunately. It's certainly true that I'm
 getting a lot of peace and resolution around my relationship
 woes by learning to really, truly, LET GO. 

<p>However, I didn't mean to let go of quite so much of my material
 goods just yet. 

<p>I LOST MY WALLET.

<p>Dude. 

<p>I've put up flyers, and I think I know where I lost it, so I'm
 hoping some neighborhood person will find it. But there's all
 the stuff that'll need replacing, plus about $80 in cash, plus
 a bunch of business cards and membership cards, and it's all
 just rotten.

<p>I was just reading about how a moment's inattention can cause
 us great grief. 

<p>I didn't need this much wisdom all in one week.

<p>[Edited to add: The MTA will actually refund a prorated amount
 of an unlimited Metrocard bought with a credit card. So that's
 part of my loss allayed. I hadn't put my new bankcard in my
 wallet yet, and Francis just ordered us new credit cards, since
 our old ones had expired, so there shouldn't be any monetary
 loss besides the cash. It's just a bunch of irritation, getting
 a new driver's license and Social Security card. Grr.]



