
URL: http://ls.berkeley.edu/new/02/trinh.html
<h>Trinh T. Minh-ha's Films Featured at Documenta

<p>An interview with Trinh T. Minh-ha and Genevieve Shiffrar

<p>June 26, 2002

<p>Professor Trinh T. Minh-ha, of the Rhetoric and Women's Studies
 Departments, is known around the world as a cutting-edge filmmaker
 whose work challenges the boundaries of the medium. In the words
 of one critic, "Trinh T. Minh-ha in her unique and beautifully
 composed films is a lyricist of the first order, an imaginative
 see-er and thinker whose art radically remakes narrative modes
 of filmmaking by invoking then reinventing the tools of the
 anthropologist, the poet and political witness, the visual artist
 and the musical composer" (Steve Dickison, the Poetry Center).

<p> Indeed, she has received numerous prestigious awards and grants
 and has been given over 27 retrospectives nationally and internationally
 for her six films: 

<p>Trinh Minh-ha filming A Tale of Love

<l>The Fourth Dimension, "on the 'rituals' of Japanese culture and
 on time as explored and experienced in digital video imaging,"
 2001

<l>A Tale of Love, "an experimental narrative," 1995

<l>Shoot for the Contents, "on culture, arts, and politics in China,"
 1991

<l>Surname Viet Given Name Nam," on identity and culture through
 the struggle of Vietnamese women," 1989

<l>Naked Spaces - Living is Round, "on the relation between women,
 houses, and cosmos in West Africa," 1985

<l>Reassemblage, "on filming in rural Senegal and a critique of
 the anthropological I/eye," 1982

<p>Trinh Minh-ha is not only a filmmaker. She is also a prolific
 writer, a poet, a critic, a composer, and a much loved teacher
 at Berkeley. She has written five books and nearly 100 journal
 articles, co-authored or co-edited three more books, composed
 musical pieces for percussion and electronic instruments, and
 has collaborated in the creation of multimedia installation
 art.

<p>From June 8 to September 15, 2002, Dr. Trinh's films will be
 included in one of the most important contemporary art events
 in Europe, Documenta11. Documenta is a series of art events
 that takes place only once every five years in Kassel, Germany.
 Documenta11 consists of a constellation of five events (or "platforms")
 realized in four continents in the span of eighteen months (March
 2001 to September 2002). Each of the first four platforms are
 devised as symposia. They gather scholars, artists and activists
 to explore the problematics of art, politics, and society around
 a theme: Democracy Unrealized (in Vienna); Experiments with
 Truth: Transitional Justice and the Processes of Truth and Reconciliation
 (in New Delhi); CrŽolitŽ and Creolization (in St. Lucia); Under
 Siege: Four African Cities, Freetown, Johannesburg, Kinshasa,
 Lagos (in Lagos). The exhibition in Kassel, also known as the
 "Museum of the 100 Days," takes place from June 8 to September
 15. It represents the fifth platform and gives concrete form
 to the principal pursuit of Documenta 11. In Platform 5, four
 of Trinh Minh-ha's films are showing alongside the work of over
 100 international artists.

<p>Genevieve Shiffrar spoke with Professor Trinh in her office about
 Documenta11, filmmaking, and teaching at UC Berkeley. 

<p>G S: You've been included in film festivals all over the world.
 But this one will be different&#151;it is the "art world" and
 there will be all kinds of art forms, not just films. And it's
 a big deal. Here's a quote from the Documenta11 website: "Every
 five years the discussion within the international art community
 is comprised in Kassel's 'Museum of 100 Days.'" That's saying
 for the next five years, discourse within the art community
 is influenced by what goes on there and possibly by your own
 work. Will you comment on these differences of the Documenta
 exhibition compared to the traditional film festival?

<p>T Mh: Yes, Documenta is unique partly because it happens only
 every five years. Not every two years as with the Biennale nor
 every year as with the old Salon-type of event. Its importance
 lies in its worldwide stature both as a discursive intervention
 and as an art exhibition. In a way, we can thank the first four
 Documentas for the shift in focus of the international community
 from the art scene in old Europe to the one in America via Germany;
 or more specifically, from Paris to New York via Kassel. It's
 a colossal cultural manifestation&#151;significantly held in
 a small, remote town of the German countryside. Documenta can
 then be said to be initially conceived as a break with a whole
 tradition of art exhibition, as well as a challenge to the art
 establishment of the Nazi totalitarian regime. However Documenta
 has been much criticized since then. The last one, Documenta
 10, was blamed for example, for having widely ignored Eastern
 Europe and other parts of the world, and hence for failing to
 question the domineering role Western art assumes for itself,
 despite the director's proclaimed emphasis on the political
 context of aesthetic production. And so Documenta11, presently
 curated by Okwui Enwezor, seems to be the first to act on that
 imperial framework, to insist on the processes of cultural mixing
 around the world (including Latin America and Africa), and to
 address questions of transcultural and transdiasporic practices.
 I am happy to be part of this.

<p>G S: I imagine that in film festivals, a film of yours is shown
 and you're there to talk to the audience about it. But in Documenta11,
 your films are going to be shown continuously, and you won't
 be there. Will that be significant for you? 

<p>T Mh: You mentioned earlier that this exhibition places my work
 in an art circuit quite different from the film-festival circuit
 I am used to. That's very true. Film's inclusion as one of the
 "arts" (or "fields of cultural production," as they are now
 called) to be presented at Documenta is only a recent phenomenon.
 And yes, the film world is very different from the art world.
 The film industry, the Hollywood-ish film world as well as the
 PBS world of information like to speak contemptuously of everything
 they categorize as "art film." To the marketing mind that dominates
 media production, any film that is non-commercial by nature
 is not really a film. An "art film" immediately means failure
 at the box office. So usually, the film world does not really
 want to be associated with the art world. And filmmakers whose
 works shuttle across these boundaries are very few. There is
 a tradition of experimental filmmaking that situates itself
 in the art context, but that body of work does not cross the
 line. 

<p>I myself have no stake in the "art film"&#151;a category, which,
 like any other film category (the documentary, the feature narrative,
 the avant-garde), is sometimes used to include my films, other
 times to exclude them, and often to their disadvantage. Thus,
 mainly because while my films deal with the creative tools and
 the unique properties of cinema, they do so with a social and
 political view of both form and content. Furthermore, the form
 my films arrive at&#151;which is also their content, and vice-versa&#151;cannot
 be consumed merely as form, since what it addresses is its own
 fragile becoming, its nothingness and hence, infiniteness. With
 such a defiance of categories, the body of work I produce meets
 with a lot of rejection while it also gets to show widely, in
 very diverse and controversial contexts. But even when it is
 given exposure, it tends to be marginalized within the very
 category it is given, or worse, within its own areas of strength.

<p>G S: One of the things you're really good at is playing a major
 role in the dialogue about your own work. You publish the scripts
 of your films and you publish conversations about your films,
 and you have interviews like this so that your thoughts about
 them are really significant, as equally significant as the works
 themselves.

<p>T Mh: I'm glad you come back to this point which I've forgotten
 in my answer. Since my films are widely exhibited and internationally
 distributed, obviously, the instances when these films are shown
 without me far exceed the instances when I get to speak at their
 screenings. The publication of scripts and interviews is a different
 although related matter. On the one hand, these represent only
 a very tiny part of the discussions that my films have generated,
 and most people involved have no previous knowledge of the published
 material. On the other hand, nothing I've said or written in
 relation to my films&#151;even when I address them directly&#151;is
 really "about" the films. That part is always readily filled
 in by the viewers. One cannot speak or write "about" one's work
 or anyone else's without killing it. You don't need (to make)
 the film if you can just talk about it. What I can do and have
 been doing, however, is to write, speak, theorize "with" film&#151;a
 critical distinction I have always maintained in my work. The
 verbal and the visual are different activities and realities
 that offer different experiences. They stand on their own and
 they co-exist. In that sense, the interviews are as important
 as the works themselves, but they are what their name says:
 inter-views&#151;the talk or the event between. 

<p>And, since I'm also a writer&#151;as committed to writing as
 to filmmaking&#151;the world of words is just as exciting and
 demanding as the world of images and music. The traditional
 approach to film has mostly been either to make the words serve
 the images or to make the images illustrate the words. Or else,
 words relegated to the realm of the "impure" mundane are downright
 excluded from the uncorrupted "visionary" world of certain experimental
 filmmakers. This is a very narrow way of conceiving verbal language.
 Instead of subjecting words to the visual or of denying their
 importance as symbolic universe and social contract, one can
 approach them creatively, the way poets do. A commentary, for
 example, is not necessarily there to explain, narrate, dissect
 or duplicate what the image is already doing in its own way,
 but rather, it can be a textual presence whose poetic power
 expands and propels the image in an unexpected direction. This
 is the way I work with words. 

<p> So it doesn't matter, really, that I am there with my film.
 When I am there, I am offering something else altogether&#151;a
 companionship to the film. Or else, I am a guest: speaking,
 not of "what the film is all about," but of specific processes
 and circumstances of filmmaking while building, through the
 spectators' own feedback, a number of possible readings with
 my film. Here, even though intentions are important, ultimately
 any viewer can do that if they invest in the terms of the film
 to create verbally with it, and in ways I do not always expect.
 I love that. It's what my work actually solicits. With the kind
 of film I make, it does happen that people come back four or
 five times to watch it again, and each time they have a different
 reception of it, depending on their state of mind, the mood
 of the day, the collective experience, the condition and context
 of screening. They said they never came out of the film the
 same way. Such a multiplicity and creativity of input is ideal.
 And hence, if I'm with the film, it is fine. If I'm not, it
 is also fine. A lot of rich, heated, constructive and controversial
 discussions at screenings have happened in my absence. The film
 has its own life.

<p>G S: Yesterday, I went to the Moffitt Library on campus to see
 Naked Spaces - Living is Round. At one point, a voice in the
 film said something to the effect that if a person has music,
 they have strength. ["'Even if you have eaten and you are full,'
 a man said, 'you have no sustaining strength to plough the land
 vigorously and endure the hard work if no music flows in you.'"]
 And the music was so powerful in the film; it made me value
 within myself the importance of music. Seeing people in western
 Africa conduct their daily lives in music as they plow the fields
 or prepare a meal made me think, "wow, they really know how
 to live." When I walked out of the library and for the whole
 day, I had this beat with me. It moved me all across campus
 that day. It was really great, and I had that thought, "oh I
 have to go back and see it again."

<p>A still from Trinh Minh-ha's digital video, 
 The Fourth Dimension

<p>T Mh: You touch on a dimension that is very important to me in
 filmmaking. I was actually trained as a music composer. Although
 I usually prefer to work with the local people's music for the
 sound track, my films are conceived musically&#151;as light,
 rhythm and voice. Viewers have compared Naked Spaces for example,
 to an Indian raga or "musical mode." What seems most striking
 in the performances of music from India is the way they create
 an emotional climate and bring forth in the audience a specific
 emotional state. Here, the "alap" or "prelude" is just as important
 as the piece itself because the prelude is really the challenging
 moment when the musician improvises freely to go toward his
 or her audience and to literally tune in together. And that
 moment of both introduction and encounter between performer,
 listener and music can be as long as needed before it feels
 right for the piece to start. The raga can go on for hours and
 hours until dawn, and this is what my films have evoked&#151;especially
 Naked Spaces because of its pace and length. But what I also
 get in that film, in terms of time and rhythm, is the sound
 of drumming, since you mention it. Percussion is certainly one
 area in music that remains very dear to me, and you've recognized
 that. In my last digital film, The Fourth Dimension, I can say,
 for example, that the two most powerful "characters" are: the
 train, that regulates time (the time of traveling and of viewing);
 and the drum, that is the beat of your life. And drums in this
 film are mostly played by women. I really love the multi-dimension
 of music in film.

<p>G S:  I want to try to talk about teaching, but I can't seem
 to make the segue right now&#133;

<p>T Mh: &#133;since you mention something very beautiful in relation
 to what African villagers say on the power of music to give
 strength. The way you felt this also ... is a beautiful reception
 because that's what music should convey in people. Their "know(ing)
 how to live" as you put it, is not a mere question of aesthetics
 or of having a so-called musical ear. Despite the background
 in music composition (classical, electronic and percussive),
 it was not through the trained ear that I taught music in the
 past. Music education in the West emphasizes the need to train
 your ear in order to listen very precisely to the frequency
 of the notes. You have to recognize the different notes in a
 scale and tune it according to a standard A. In other parts
 of the world, including Africa, what is more important is the
 precision of the intervals. When you tune your instrument, it
 is the intervals that you focus on. A note can be adjusted lower
 in one instance, and higher in another instance, but what needs
 exact tuning is the interval. In other words, one listens to
 shifting relations rather than to fixed individual locations.
 Intervals are important because in performances, one is always
 playing in relation to. Often fundamental to this music is the
 human voice, which is a most precise musical instrument, and
 musicians would have to tune their instruments first and foremost
 to the singer's voice, while conversing with other instruments.
 This is all about relationships.

<p>The same applies to my teaching. I encourage my students to return
 to the untrained ear in order to draw new relationships in all
 spheres of their activities. For me, to teach film, for example,
 is really to work with relationships&#151;between elements of
 cinema; between filmmaker, filmed subject and film viewer; as
 well as between components of the cinematic apparatus. Relationships
 are not simply given. They are constantly in formation&#151;undone
 and redone as in a net whose links are indefinite. So when you
 work on relationships, you are actually working with rhythm.
 With the rhythm that determines people's interactions; the dynamics
 between sound and silence; or the way an image, a voice, a music
 relates to one another and acts upon the viewer's reception
 of the film. Rhythm is a way of marking and framing relationships.
 In the film you mentioned, Naked Spaces, you can see and hear
 with precision the relationship between two women pounding corn
 or millet for example. That opens to another form of rhythm&#151;the
 rhythm of our daily life, the physical, social and existential
 rhythms. With music, we can learn to listen to the richness
 of silence, and hence to ourselves, to our body, to the language
 of a whole people, to the vast rhythm of life.

<p>G S: I really got this sense in your film Reassemblage&#133;and
 now I am thinking of how you may be bringing this "rhythm of
 life" to its potential in the classroom at Berkeley. For one,
 there may be a reciprocity: you benefit from your relationships
 with people in the classroom; just as they learn as well.

<p>T Mh: Yes, very much. Whether I teach in Women's Studies, in
 Rhetoric, or in Film (I'm now only teaching in Rhetoric and
 Women's Studies), the focus is always strongly on theory. But
 theory here is not taught as something that one merely consumes.
 For me, the challenge in teaching is not that of providing or
 transmitting knowledge, but that of introducing a substantial
 difference in the students' relation to knowledge. I work at
 honing students to their own singular potentials. I provide
 them with tools of analysis and of creativity&#151;tools that
 allow them to situate their experiences across contexts, to
 define their intellectual itineraries on their terms, and to
 find a voice, so to speak. But rather than putting emphasis
 on mere acquisition and accumulation of knowledge in research,
 I stress the role knowledge plays in the constitution of self
 and other, or in the students' daily lives and practices.

<p>And this is a real challenge for students because they are used
 to just reading about theory, whereas what I solicit from them
 is the theory that arises from their own contexts and interactions.
 Of great importance is the ability to break the circular relation
 of supplier and consumer between student and teacher, and to
 gain theoretical dimension and scope in the way we conceive
 of our social and ethical everyday. Through lectures, readings
 and discussions, students are invited to expand their views
 by drawing unfamiliar, unexpected relationships in what they
 have learned. They are encouraged, on the one hand, to participate
 directly in the collective process of making theory so as to
 relate more intimately to the body of works with which they
 are engaged, and on the other hand, to develop, independently
 and creatively, the ability to think through relational possibilities.

<p>I've been doing this even in large classes in Women's Studies
 and in Rhetoric. Students can be at first very troubled because
 they are being put in an uncomfortable place where suddenly
 everything discussed in class turns around and calls for a questioning
 of themselves. But without this, criticism tends to be reduced
 to a mere matter of judging (what is right or wrong, good or
 evil), and we keep our finger pointed at the "other." Questions
 of racism, sexism, homo- and xeno-phobia or whatever additional
 phobias we have in our society, all have to do with the way
 we conceive of relationships. And this remains basic to my courses,
 no matter what the subject and the discipline are.

<p>G S:  You are at home with so many disciplines, not simply those
 of departments where you are faculty. You probably could just
 as easily teach in Music, French, Ethnic Studies, Art Practice,
 South and Southeast Asian Studies, and Anthropology. It has
 historically been very hard for other people in academics and
 other creative people to make those kinds of leaps, to straddle
 different worlds. Although I think you answered my next question
 already, I wanted to ask what kind of advice you would have
 for young scholars and young creative people to find their own
 way. Perhaps the answer would be to see oneself in relation
 to others.

<p>T Mh: Well, this is quite necessary, although let me put it slightly
 differently. There's a difference between seeing oneself as
 a link in the net and being subjected to comparisons of oneself
 to others. In my films for example, there are always at least
 three textual layers or three voices: the visual text, the musical
 text, and the verbal text. But within the verbal text itself,
 there are already at least two texts: one relating to the subject
 that is being visualized (like West Africa, Viet Nam, China
 or Japan), and one speaking to the unfolding process of producing
 images and meanings. In other words, the commentary has a direct
 relation with the culture visualized, but it always tells us
 something about the tools of creativity&#151;here cinema, or
 more recently, digital technology. And by doing so, it positions
 the filmmaker. I'm constantly exposing where I stand. With such
 a critical exposure, I am bound to loose power (it's just a
 trick; an illusion; an image; a film, after all&#133;); because
 exposure of the making process is exposure of the limit of a
 medium and a form of mediation. Media people usually do everything
 to make the story or the message they present appear seamless
 so as to bypass their own subjectivity. They are afraid the
 exposure will impoverish what they have to say, but actually
 it can really enrich it. Vulnerability can enhance our receptivity,
 and as we situate and position ourselves in what we do, there
 is no need for conflict. Rather than having to wage war in a
 relation of dominance and submission (of who's to remain on
 top) or of complementarity (the way one gender is expected to
 complement the other, for example), we can thrive and grow in
 a relation of multiplicity. To be an other among others can
 be a profoundly transformative experience.

<p>Let's take for example the notion of interdisciplinarity, which
 is being widely promoted in university contexts. The most common
 approach tends to be accumulative in its practice: one specialized
 knowledge is juxtaposed with another; members from different
 fields come together to converse happily within their expertise.
 What gets glossed over in such an approach is the inter- itself.
 In adding, one has to learn to subtract, to let the holes speak
 and to work on the gap. The question is not that of putting
 two disciplines together or of putting one next to the other.
 What is at stake in this inter-creation is the very notion of
 the specialist and the expert. To cut across disciplines and
 borders is to live aloud the malaise of categories and expertise.
 These would have to be thoroughly questioned and pushed to their
 limits so as to resist the comfort of belonging and of fixed
 classification. 

<p>The boundary zone then takes on its full function as the zone
 of transformation. Where, for example, does the boundary of
 history, of art, of anthropology, or of architecture lie? When
 work is carried out across and in between disciplines, on that
 very boundary zone, the latter inevitably undergoes change.
 The encounter should lead to a transformation. This is a challenge
 most of us prefer not to take up because it is so much easier
 to continue to be an expert in our own field and consult another
 expert. It's difficult to let go of the barriers and let the
 challenge transform us. But for those of us who fare in a multiplicity
 of fields, working in an inter-terrain that potentially belongs
 to everyone can be very enriching. It's a way of making links,
 of connecting, rather than simply of asserting or reifying boundaries.

<p>G S: What you are saying seems applicable to your films as well.
 Common themes in your films seem to be this relationship of
 oneself to those around you, working with these boundaries,
 and how that defines what you are doing in some way. . . And,
 you have made so many distinctly different kinds of films.

<p>T Mh:We also need people who stay in one place and do just one
 thing. I'm thinking here in the tradition of Asian arts. For
 example, certain artists may decide to devote themselves to
 painting only bamboos, only birds, or horses, or persimmons
 during their entire lifetime. This, however, is very different
 from the notion of expertise as we know it today. If they paint
 mountains all their lives, it's not because they want to become
 an expert in mountains. Rather, I would say, it's because they
 receive the world through mountains. Even if one comes exactly
 to the same place and looks from the same point of view everyday,
 the mountain is never the same. It would change every single
 second. In other words there is no such thing as "dead nature"
 or what in the tradition of Western arts is considered as "still."
 If you paint for example a vase of flowers or...

<p>G S: Like a still life?

<p>T Mh: Yes, a still life. There is no concept of nature morte
 in ancient Eastern Art. Nature is alive, always shifting. It
 should be shown in its course. So you can draw thousands of
 mountains and you can devote your life to painting this single
 subject, and yet each painting shows a unique mountain-instance.
 Painting here is inscribing the ever-changing processes of nature&#151;that
 are also one's own. Painter and painted are, in a way, both
 caught on canvas in the act of painting. To paint nature is
 to paint one's self-portrait. (Although the tradition of Western
 arts tend to be anthropocentric, Francis Bacon's self-portraits
 can be said to be similar in spirit.) So this is one way of
 taking in the world: being so intimately in touch with oneself
 that every time one returns deep inside, one opens wide to the
 outside world. 

<p>The other approach, which my work may seem at first to exemplify,
 is to work with multiplicity in an outward traveling mode. But
 such a distinction is temporary, because ultimately, the two
 approaches do meet and merge as in my case. I travel from one
 culture to another&#151;Senegalese, West African, Vietnamese,
 Chinese and Japanese&#151; in making my films. This may fit
 well with today's transnational economy, in which the crossing
 of geophysical boundaries is of wide occurrence, whether by
 choice or by political circumstances. But for the notion of
 the transversal and the transcultural to take on a life in one's
 work, traveling would have to happen in one place, or inward.
 Home and abroad are not opposites when traveling is not set
 against dwelling and staying home. In a creative context, coming
 and going can happen in the same move and traveling is where
 I am. Where you are is where your identity is; that's your place
 and that's your home...

<p>G S: That's your now.

<p>T Mh: Yes, exactly. Going from one place to another is here returning
 home.

<p>Email web@ls.berkeley.edu about this site.
 Copyright 2004 The
 Regents of the University of California
 College of Letters
 & Science, University of California, 201 Campbell Hall, Berkeley,
 CA 94720-2920 USA Phone (510) 642-4487



