
URL: http://lubakmetyk.infinology.net/others/alicia/coldfire.htm
<p>DISCLAIMER: The characters belong to Wildstorm, and are used
 without permission for entertainment purposes only. This is
 set just after Stormwatch #13, vol. I.

<h>Cold Fire

<h>by Alicia McKenzie

<h> Dawn. It was one of the things he truly appreciated about life
 aboard Skywatch. Every forty minutes, the sun would break over
 the curve of the planet below, a sight of such beauty that it
 seemed fresh to his eyes, each time. The memories of his childhood
 in Siberia, of cold gray skies and weeks without a sight of
 the sun, always seemed to vanish for those first few, golden
 moments. 

<p>Nikolas Kamarov watched the sunlight spill through the window
 and across the floor of his quarters, brilliant and somehow
 beckoning. Part of him yearned to get up and walk over to the
 window, to bathe in the light, but he stayed on the bed, in
 the shadows. He didn't dare. 

<p>He couldn't risk absorbing any more energy. Not for a while,
 at least; not when he had tested his limits so drastically on
 this last mission. There was so much not even the scientists
 here knew about his powers, including his 'carrying capacity'.
 . . 

<p>He turned his face away, closing his eyes and willing himself
 to relax. A futile effort. His body fairly screamed out its
 weariness, but his mind would not rest. 

<p>They had not kept him on the medical deck for long. Once they
 had been certain he was not 'leaking' any of the energy he had
 absorbed from the nuclear detonation at Cherepovets, they had
 released him to recuperate in his own quarters. 

<p>Probably assuming they would need the space, Nikolas thought
 with a trace of wryness. There seemed to be few Stormwatch missions
 as of late that ended without a least a few field operatives
 in the hands of the medical personnel. 

<p>His mood darkened further as he reflected on how narrowly the
 members of his team had escaped serious injury. What had begun
 as a simple investigative mission to discover the fates of the
 Russian troops lost at the Kasny Medvyed base had turned into
 something very different with Yevgraf's escape from his containment
 pod. No, Nikolas corrected himself scrupulously, not Yevgraf,
 only M.A.D.-1. Constantin Yevgraf, his friend, was long dead.
 All that was left was a twisted ghost of the man, lost inside
 that armored shell. 

<p>A ghost that had come very closer to killing countless people
 with his attempt to detonate Cherepovets' entire complement
 of missiles. Nikolas shivered involuntarily, the dull ache and
 odd, relentless sense of. . .pressure that seemed to have taken
 up residence within every muscle of his body since he'd absorbed
 the blast increasing sharply for a moment, as if in reaction
 to the memory. 

<p>Such an explosion would have meant instant obliteration for many
 of his countrymen, and lingering death for millions more. He
 had reached the detonator too late, seen the reaction begin.
 There had been no other choice but to try and contain it, and
 now that terrifying potential was inside him, held barely in
 check while it slowly dissipated.. 

<p>He should be content with the day's work, and the closing of
 a circle that had begun years ago in Afghanistan. Then, his
 attempt to kill Yevgraf, to carry out his duty as a member of
 Epeznatz, had failed, yet the injuries he'd suffered had led
 to the discovery of his latent abilities, and to his career
 in Stormwatch. . . 

<p>To freedom. That was at the heart of it. Here, he was no longer
 a killer, murdering on behalf of a corrupt state. He could be
 something more, something better. . . 

<p>A soft chime broke the silence, disturbing his train of thought.
 He sat up, grimacing at the wave of dizziness that washed over
 him. "Who is it?" he called weakly, wishing that whoever it
 was would go away. His head was spinning, and he wanted very
 much to lie back down. 

<p>"Nigel and Toshiro. Just thought we'd check up on ye. . ." 

<p>Nikolas started to stand up, thought better of it, and remained
 where he was. "Come in." The door slid aside, and he smiled
 faintly at his two teammates as they stepped in, Fuji having
 to duck in order to enter. "It is good to see you, Nigel." 

<p>"Same here, Nikolas." Hellstrike said amiably. His voice was
 the same, Nikolas thought; strange, when his outward appearance
 had changed so dramatically. He seemed made of blue fire, now.
 It sparked and danced around the cybernetic chassis Link had
 created for him. 

<p>Nigel's body had been completely consumed by its own fusion reaction
 after the injuries he'd suffered at Deathtrap's hands. If Toshiro
 had not somehow, inexplicably been able to reach him, Synergy
 would have resorted to the drastic step of jettisoning Nigel
 into space in order to prevent a second, more catastrophic explosion
 that might have destroyed Skywatch. 

<p>"The new containment suits are very. . .stylish, my friends,"
 Nikolas said. "I trust they are fully functional?" 

<p>"Not t'worry, lad," Nigel said with a chuckle. "Neither of us
 are leaking, if that's what ye're concerned about." 

<p>"Yes," Toshiro said earnestly. His new containment suits was
 much more substantial-looking than the old, more like armor.
 He had taken something of a risk himself, disobeying orders
 and breaching his suit to reach out to Nigel; Synergy might
 have chosen to jettison them both. "We would not have chanced
 coming down to see you if the case was otherwise." He levered
 his sizeable bulk down onto the windowseat, the single place
 to sit in the room that would be able to support his weight.
 "Synergy warned us that you had. . .what was the phrase she
 used, Nigel-san? 'Bitten off more than you could chew' already?"
 

<p>"Aye, that was it." Nigel finally sat down, and immediately slouched
 in the chair, a posture so familiar that Nikolas couldn't help
 another slight smile. Such small, familiar things were a relief
 to see. He had been very worried about what less-visible effects
 Deathtrap's attack might have had on his friend. "Heard ye all
 had a pretty rough go of it down there. Saw Cannon stomping
 about, loooking even more angry at the world than usual. . ."
 

<p>"It was not precisely the investigative mission we had expected,
 no," Nikolas said with a sigh, shifting position on the bed
 so that he could lean against the wall for support. He wondered
 if it would be terribly rude to ask them to leave. He was immensely
 relieved to see that Nigel was well, but the room would not
 stop moving, and he really thought lying down again would be
 advisable at some point in the near future. "I am afraid my
 first field command will not go down in Stormwatch records as
 a stunning success." 

<p>"Ye're joking, right? Winter, ye saved yer whole bloody country,
 remember?" Nigel's tone grew concerned. "Are ye sure ye shouldn't
 be down on med-deck, lad? Ye look a bit rocky." 

<p>"They released me to my quarters," Nikolas said tiredly, inwardly
 flinching at Nigel's wording. Yevgraf had thought the same,
 that he was saving Russia. So easy to delude oneself, with ideology.
 "Not quite a clean bill of health. . ." 

<p>The door chimed again, and Nikolas blinked. "Come," he said with
 a sigh, wondering why he was so popular today. 

<p>The door slid aside. "Hi," Fahrenheit said with a tentative smile,
 stepping in when she saw Toshiro and Nigel. "Someone throw a
 party and forget to invite me?" 

<p>"Not quite, Lauren." She seemed all right, Nikolas thought, studying
 her as intently as he could. She had already been released from
 the medical deck by the time he had returned to Skywatch, but
 the memory of her losing consciousness in his arms was still
 far too sharp for comfort. All field agents knew that the mission
 always came first. It was part of the 'deal', but it was much
 easier to know that you were expendable than to decide that
 others were. 

<p>"I do not think Nikolas is in the condition for a party, Lauren,"
 Toshiro said helpfully. 

<p>She came over and sat down on the end of the bed, flipping her
 ponytail back over her shoulder. "Yeah, I see that," she said
 softly. "Not that I feel up to anything particularly energetic
 myself. . ." Nikolas couldn't help a wince. She caught the reaction
 and shook her head, looking half-disgusted, half-amused. "Dammit,
 Nikolas, don't look so morose. You stopped the psychopathic
 maniac in his tracks, Russia's still in one piece. . .what more
 do you want out of a day's work?" 

<p>"Eh, let him brood, Lauren. Ye know he's not going t'be thinking
 straight about this 'til he gets some sleep and gets his head
 back together." Somehow, even in this new form, Nigel managed
 to look sympathetic. "Believe me, I know how it feels when old
 ghosts come back to bite ye on the arse." 

<p>Nikolas sighed and closed his eyes. "That's not it," he muttered.
 Or maybe it was. Old ghosts, Nigel had said, and perhaps that
 was the problem. It had not been simply Yevgraf that had provoked
 such shame, such rage in him. His old friend. . .enemy, was
 only a symbol, nothing more. Not just of his past, but his country's
 past. . .and the shadows that loomed over Russia's future like
 snowclouds in the Siberian sky. 

<p>He opened his eyes, looking bleakly at Lauren. Wondering if she
 could understand. . .if any of them could. He felt very cold,
 inside, as if every bit of the nuclear fire Yevgraf had tried
 to unleash had turned into ice as he had taken it into himself.
 He so loathed the weapons that had created it. His nation's
 'instruments of suicide'. . . 

<p>He had been utterly terrified when he had realized Yevgraf's
 intentions. 

<p>"I tried to argue with him, you know," he said quietly, his mouth
 twisting bitterly in a smile that was not a smile. "When I reached
 him at Cherepovets. I told him that what he intended was madness.
 . ." 

<p>"And so it was, Nikolas-san." Toshiro nodded. "My country has
 suffered the effects of what yours so narrowly escaped today.
 We still do. It is truly terrible, that men such as that should
 think to inflict such horror upon their fellows." He shook his
 head slowly. "It is to your credit that you tried, but I do
 not think anything could redeem such evil." 

<p>"Evil?" Nikolas laughed weakly, closing his eyes again for a
 moment. "Evil is a very subjective concept, my friend. I was
 the same as Yevgraf, once. Maybe worse." After all, Yevgraf
 had spared his life back in Afghanistan. . . 

<p>"Bullshit," Lauren said loudly, and his eyes snapped open in
 surprise. She was glaring at him. He told himself that it was
 only his imagination, that there was not really heat coming
 off her. "Don't you dare compare yourself to him, Nikolas. Maybe
 you were both Spetznaz, but that was a long time ago, and you're
 NOTHING like him. You're a whole hell of a lot better, and I
 think I know several million people who'd agree with me tonight."
 

<p>"Lauren. . ." 

<p>"And don't argue with me, okay? The self-flagellation's really
 getting on my nerves. You've got nothing to be kicking yourself
 about. You were absolutely incredible today." Lauren actually
 laughed, almost derisively. "That's what's really getting on
 Cannon's nerves, you know. . .not that he got his ass kicked
 . It's because he kicked up all that fuss about Synergy putting
 you in command, and then you didn't even need the rest of us
 to get the job done." She snorted. "Hard on poor Mitchell's
 ego." 

<p>"The lad could use a wee bit of an attitude adjustment," Nigel
 said wryly. 

<p>"You won't get any argument out of me," Lauren said, getting
 up. She leaned over and laid a hand on Nikolas's shoulder, squeezing
 it gently. "Look, get some rest. You look like hell. Besides,
 on top of the whole eating a couple dozen nuclear weapons for
 lunch business, I seem to remember seeing you get shot at least
 twice today." 

<p>"Three times, actually," he murmured. The third had been a triple
 blast from M.A.D.-1's pulse cannons that had actually sent him
 airborne for some considerable distance. It certainly would
 have incinerated a normal human being, but it had supplied him
 with enough energy to redirect explosively at his foe. Yevgraf
 had sown the seeds of his own defeat with that last attack.
 Nikolas could almost find it ironic. 

<p>"Fine, three. You've really got to learn how to duck one of these
 days, pal." She released him, giving Nigel and Toshiro a stern
 look. "Out, or do I have to chase you?" 

<p>"Anytime, lass. . ." 

<p>"Watch your mouth, Nigel." 

<p>Nikolas couldn't help a weary smile at the interplay between
 his teammates. "Spaceeba, my friends," he said, beginning to
 get up, with the intention of seeing them out, as was only polite.
 The room tilted wildly around him, and he swallowed, sinking
 back to the bed, suddenly not quite certain that his legs would
 hold him. 

<p>"Oh, for God's sake, Nikolas, we can find the door. None of us
 particularly want to have to pick you up off the floor." Lauren
 strode across to the door, as if proving a point, but then hesitated,
 smiling warmly at him. "Hell of a first command, Winter," she
 said softly. "One for the books." 

<p>"Aye," Nigel said, getting up and following. "I'm back on active
 duty, so if I don't see ye for a bit, take care and get rested
 up, Nikolas." 

<p>"I, for my part, am suspended from duty," Toshiro said cheerfully,
 standing up and almost hitting his head on the ceiling. "Although
 I should be happy, I think. If my decision to help Nigel had
 not turned out as well as it did, I think I would either be
 floating in space or looking for a new job. Synergy was most
 displeased as it was. So, if you would like any company while
 you recuperate, Nikolas-san, my schedule is most flexible."
 

<p>"I will keep it in mind, Toshiro," Winter said, his mouth still
 quirking upwards in a smile. 

<p>And then they were gone, and his quarters were as silent as they
 had been before. Not quite as empty, though, he thought almost
 fondly as he let himself slide down into a prone position. He
 was not any less exhausted than he had been before, but the
 tension that had kept him from relaxing was less, if not gone
 entirely. 

<p>It was good to have such friends, he thought almost sleepily.
 His mind was slowing, no longer replaying the events of the
 day at that frantic, merciless pace. It was not only where he
 was and what he was doing that had created such a great change
 in his life. It was the people who fought at his side, as well.
 

<p>Outside the window now were only stars, the same stars that the
 boy he had been had watched each clear night, back home in Siberia,
 as he'd dreamed of a different life. 



