
URL: http://nationalcatholicreporter.org/peace/pfg111404.htm
<p>By special arrangement, The National Catholic Reporter Publishing
 Company is able to make available Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton's
 weekly Sunday homilies given at Saint Leo Church, Detroit, MI.
  Each homily is transcribed from a tape recording of the actual
 delivery and made available to you as an NCR Web site exclusive.
  You may register for a weekly e-mail reminder that will be
 sent to you when each new homily is posted. From time to time,
 Bishop Gumbleton is traveling and unable to provide us with
 the homily for the week. NOTE: The homilies are available here
 five days after they are given, always on Friday. 

<p>This week's readings **Malachi 3:19-20aFor look, the Day is coming,
 glowing like a furnace. All the proud and all the evil-doers
 will be the stubble, and the Day, when it comes, will set them
 ablaze, says Yahweh Sabaoth, leaving them neither root nor branch.
 But for you who fear my name, the Sun of justice will rise with
 healing in his rays, and you will come out leaping like calves
 from the stall

<p>2 Thessalonians 3:7-12For you yourselves know how you ought to
 follow our example, because we did not act in an undisciplined
 manner among you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying
 for it, but with labor and hardship we kept working night and
 day so that we would not be a burden to any of you; not because
 we do not have the right to this, but in order to offer ourselves
 as a model for you, so that you would follow our example. For
 even when we were with you, we used to give you this order:
 if anyone is not willing to work, then he is not to eat, either.
 For we hear that some among you are leading an undisciplined
 life, doing no work at all, but acting like busybodies. Now
 such persons we command and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ
 to work in quiet fashion and eat their own bread.

<p>Luke 21:5-19And while some were talking about the temple, that
 it was adorned with beautiful stones and votive gifts, He said,
 "As for these things which you are looking at, the days will
 come in which there will not be left one stone upon another
 which will not be torn down." They questioned Him, saying, "Teacher,
 when therefore will these things happen? And what will be the
 sign when these things are about to take place?" And He said,
 "See to it that you are not misled; for many will come in My
 name, saying, 'I am He,' and, 'The time is near.' Do not go
 after them. When you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be
 terrified; for these things must take place first, but the end
 does not follow immediately." Then He continued by saying to
 them, "Nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom,
 and there will be great earthquakes, and in various places plagues
 and famines; and there will be terrors and great signs from
 heaven. But before all these things, they will lay their hands
 on you and will persecute you, delivering you to the synagogues
 and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for My
 name's sake. It will lead to an opportunity for your testimony.
 So make up your minds not to prepare beforehand to defend yourselves;
 for I will give you utterance and wisdom which none of your
 opponents will be able to resist or refute. But you will be
 betrayed even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends,
 and they will put some of you to death, and you will be hated
 by all because of My name. Yet not a hair of your head will
 perish. By your endurance you will gain your lives."

<p>* A longtime national and international activist in the peace
 movement, Bishop Gumbleton is a founding member of Pax Christi
 USA and an outspoken critic of the sanctions against Iraq.He
 has appeared on numerous radio and television programs, and
 has published numerous articles and reports.

<p>* Scripture texts in this work are in modified form from the
 American Standard Version of the Bible and are available as
 part of the public domain.

<p>** The Web link to Pax Christi is provided as a service to our
 readers.

<p>As we approach the end of the church year and also the end of
 the calendar year, the scriptures suggest that we turn our thoughts
 to the end of the world, the end of time, and to the return
 of Jesus. But we must listen very deeply to the scriptures today,
 because they really are not about an eminent end of time that
 we should fear. That may be our first impression, but here is
 what is happening: 

<p>At the beginning of his public life Jesus had said, "The reign
 of God is at hand." The reign of God is at hand! It's ready
 to happen! He meant that the world will be transformed into
 a world where there will be justice and peace and love and joy,
 fullness of life for everybody! The reign of God is here! It's
 at hand! That is what he said. 

<p>Dear Reader of The Peace Pulpit,

<p>We need your help. We are pleased to make available -- at no
 charge -- The Peace Pulpit. But we cannot do all we need to
 do without your financial assistance. 

<p>Please take a moment to consider contributing to our annual appeal
 and join the ranks of readers who give to the Friends of NCR
 campaign. National Catholic Reporter is a nonprofit organization.
 Contributions are tax-deductible in the United States.

<p>P.S. Everyone who donates will receive the fourth in a series
 of specially designed NCR Christmas ornaments connecting us
 in a special way to the gospel of peace on earth. Thank you.

<p> Those first disciples were caught by that message. You can imagine.
 All of us would be. Then they began to see the signs. John points
 out one sign in the second chapter of his Gospel where Jesus
 changes the water into wine at the wedding feast at Canaan in
 Galilee. He said this was the first of the signs. The disciples
 were caught up in this excitement. "It's happening!" they thought.
 

<p>Also Jesus went around curing and healing, forgiving sin, and
 reaching out to the oppressed, the marginalized and the rejected.
 He was drawing people to himself with great love. The reign
 of God seemed to be breaking forth. The disciples saw those
 signs. 



