
URL: http://observer.guardian.co.uk/life/story/0,6903,541898,00.html
<h>Please, Miss, I'm back

<p>A torment to her maths teacher, a dead loss to the careers officer
 and a perpetual truant, Notting Hill and Ealing High School
 must have been pleased to see the back of Kathryn Flett. But
 20 years later, wearing non-regulation stilettos and smoking
 heavily, she returns to 'Snotting Hill' to find out where she
 went wrong

<p>
This is absurd: I am sitting in the car outside my old school,
 killing time before an appointment with the headmistress, and,
 in addition to the delirium tremens and light beads of perspiration
 developing on my upper lip, I am smoking enough to fill the
 motor with a haze of Consulated smog. I am so damn nervous it's
 laughable. I left this school 21 years ago and the woman I am
 due to meet wasn't even there then but, none the less, the sight
 of the place makes me feel as though I have just drained a bottle
 labelled 'DRINK ME', temporarily shrinking, emotionally at least,
 to my childhood self. Which is annoying because if there's one
 impression I wish quite urgently to convey - even, irrationally,
 to a woman I have never met - it is that I am, finally, an adult.
 

<p> I went to Notting Hill and Ealing High School for Girls from
 the age of seven to 16, from 1971-1980 and, though I've driven
 past it a few times in the intervening years, I haven't set
 foot inside the gates. Now, however, the first of several small
 thrills awaits, not least of which is the opportunity to walk
 up the main steps and press the bell. Pupils always had to use
 the side entrance, until they reached the sixth form, at which
 point - along with the abolition of uniform and the gift of
 a common room (replete with Nescaf&eacute; and a mono record
 player and chairs with arms - though one might stop short of
 describing them as armchairs) came wanton use of the steps.
 Unfortunately, as an undistinguished pupil who had already overstayed
 her welcome, I made only a fleeting appearance in the sixth
 and didn't get as much use out of the steps as I might have
 - a source of more regret than seems entirely sensible. But
 then none of my feelings about school are sensible. 

<p>After being buzzed straight in without, miraculously, anybody
 accusing me of wearing unsuitable heels (though I am), it turns
 out that the Head, Susan Whitfield, is a normal and attractive
 human being (not something to be taken for granted in a headmistress)
 with a broad smile, kind eyes and a reassuringly firm handshake.
 She laughs when I tell her I'm nervous and leads me across the
 hall to her study. After a succession of other, uniformly terrifying,
 headmistresses had made me sit in small chairs on the scary
 side of their own large desks (and would I stop swinging my
 feet, please), here at Notting Hill, my first headmistress,
 Miss Hendry, had let me sit on her knee during the informal
 interview. When my parents asked me to choose which school I
 liked best, I'd opted for Notting Hill because of Miss Hendry's
 smile and welcoming lap, which seemed as good a reason as any.
 

<p>In retrospect, this major life decision may have been slightly
 too major to have been entrusted entirely to a six-year-old,
 particularly as my relationship with headmistresses was pretty
 much downhill from there. After Miss Hendry retired, to be replaced
 by the gifted and (in my case at least) long-suffering Miss
 Percy, a guest appearance in the study usually indicated not
 only that I had done something wrong, but that I was soon to
 find out what was to be done about it. Like the occasion after
 I'd had a scratching, hair-pulling catfight with a girl nicknamed
 'The Towering Inferno' (very tall, red hair) in the library.
 Or the time an exercise book containing a chain-letter style
 'porn' essay (some of us had just read The Passionflower Hotel)
 mysteriously disappeared, before resurfacing, accusingly, right
 there on Miss Percy's desk. Or the time I told Mrs Picheta,
 our Polish physics teacher, to 'Fuck off' (that was a very big
 deal). The usual punishment was detention, which meant missing
 a highly oversubscribed and overexcitable no. 65 bus journey
 crammed with 'Benny boys' (from St Benedicts around the corner
 - alumni include Julian Clary) down to Ealing Broadway for some
 mass flirting, before heading on to trawl for lipgloss at the
 'Kiss and Make-up' counter in Miss Selfridge. So, while not
 quite Room 101, neither was the Head's study actively sought
 out. 

<p>I wasn't born bad, I just grew up that way: only child, bit of
 a loner, rubbish at hockey, had read Lord of the Rings by the
 time I was eight, blah blah. That's not to say I was incredibly
 unpopular, just that I preferred my friendships one-on-one.
 I was also a year younger than everybody else, having been moved
 up because I was bright, which was fine for a while (apart from
 the fact that there were too many variations on the theme of
 'Katherine' in my class, so as the youngest I was necessarily
 known as 'Flett'). But, however bright a kid may appear, there
 is a big difference, emotionally, between a 12- and 13-year-old,
 so maybe I was always playing catch-up. 

<p>Eventually, when the hormones kicked-in and my home life got
 a bit too complicated to explain to those still stuck within
 boring nuclear families, I just turned bad - gave up on school
 and cut myself adrift. By this time, rebellion was no longer
 to be confined to smashing a hole in the crown of one's straw
 boater or wearing extra-sheer tights, but more successfully
 expressed by not actually turning up at all. At one point, I
 even got sent to an educational psychologist, where, bored and
 patronised, I successfully talked my way out of having to make
 a return visit. I was very accomplished at bunking off. 

<p>Anyway, without knowing any of this, Susan (I have to fight the
 urge to address her as 'Mrs Whitfield') takes one look at the
 expression on my face and instinctively proffers green tea and
 sympathy before inviting me to lunch in the dining room. Not
 only has it doubled in size since my day but, instead of merely
 stalking the tables, teachers now eat alongside pupils, as does
 the Head. We're early and it's nearly empty, but five minutes
 later the place is teeming with hundreds of delegates from a
 mini sisterhood of the United Nations. In my day, the school
 was entirely white and middle class. 'Oh, no, thank God, not
 any more,' says Susan. 'Now we have Armenian girls, Hong Kong
 Chinese, Japanese, Egyptians...' I notice that all of them appear
 impressively uninterested in the presence of their headmistress,
 though I don't recall ever seeing my Heads in the dining room.
 I probably thought they didn't eat. 

<p>After lunch comes an Alice in Wonderland tour of the school,
 in which everything is profoundly familiar but also not quite
 what it was. There is still the huge oil portrait of the handsome
 Miss Harriet Morant Jones, the first headmistress, in the library,
 but the dark wood panelling has gone and one wall seems to have
 melted, revealing that what used to be the old physics lab is
 now also full of books and computers. Each time we open a door,
 whatever it is my memory has prepared me to expect is invariably
 gone, replaced by a sort of shape-shifting simulacram of itself.
 The cumulative effect is faintly queasymaking. 

<p>Yet there is one thing that is both intensely familiar and unchanged:
 the smell. It's not the obvious institutional smell of, say,
 cabbages and Vim and body odour disguised by cheap deodorant,
 just a smell unique to the school, perhaps as old as the building
 and, maybe, all the girls. I like the idea that generations
 of 'Snotting Hill' (well, what would you have called it?) girls
 might share a kind of alumni scent - an idea substantiated by
 the fact that when I actually get to meet and talk to some of
 them, they all seem (if not actually smell) very familiar. 

<p>'The funny thing is that, apart from the haircuts and the shoes,
 they could have been my lot,' I tell Susan after an audience
 with the cross section of sparkling girls she has hand-picked
 to meet me (she doesn't want me sitting in on any lessons, much
 as I'd love to). It even turns out that one of them went to
 my primary school - which wouldn't be remotely odd or unexpected
 apart from the fact that my primary school shut down in the
 mid-1970s, but apparently it's re-opened, in another building
 in the same street, opposite the house where I grew up. Sort
 of the same, then, but completely different. And sitting here
 in the headmistress's study, being treated, very politely, just
 like any other unknowable adult by an equally unknowable bunch
 of teenagers telling me about their kick-boxing evening classes
 and ambitions to be interior designers and doctors, I feel a
 familial connectedness I can't really articulate but which,
 none the less, touches me - and which, I guess, also connects
 me, whether I want to be connected or not, to all the other
 old girls: a disparate bunch that includes the former deputy
 chair of the Conservative party, Dame Angela Rumbold and the
 actress Emily Watson, all the way back to Dame Harriette Chick
 and, in the 1870s, the daughters of William Morris and Burne-Jones.
 For a Victorian girl, being sent to Notting Hill was about as
 hip and progressive as schooling could get, requiring an extremely
 enlightened leap of parental faith. Still, I have not returned
 to Notting Hill to bang a drum for the benefits, or otherwise,
 of single sex, independent, fee-paying education (a subject
 about which, frankly, I feel pretty ambiva lent), I'm here because,
 for better or worse, it's where I went to school and I'm inhaling
 the scent of my madeleines. 

<p>In the 1969 school magazine, the list of the occupations of former
 NHEHS girls reveals little change from 1899. Teachers topped
 the poll, followed by nurses and secretaries, while in both
 1889 and 1969 there had been one missionary and one doctor.
 I doubt the school produces many missionaries these days, even
 kick-boxing missionaries with a Changing Rooms habit, but they're
 a bright bunch, these shiny-haired, clear-eyed, clean-limbed
 suburban girls: last year, 82 per cent of them passed an average
 of nine GCSEs with A* or A grades. Despite its ropey facilities
 (there's no space and little greenery, though many of the rooms
 now hum with PCs), Notting Hill has always been 'unashamedly
 academic, but not at the expense of individual creativity and
 freedom of expression', according to the introduction from Susan
 Whitfield on the NHEHS website, though in my day, it's fair
 to say that some of the 'creative' individuals were overlooked
 in favour of the unashamedly academic majority. It's just as
 well there weren't league tables when I was around because I'd
 have let the side down dramatically: in 1979, at 15, I got five
 O levels and was among the lowest achievers in my year. Having
 taken the exams a year early, I then had to kill time (lots
 of coffee and the Clash in the common room, and bounding up
 and down the front stairs in my Oxfam stilettos) until I could
 go to sixth form college. Where, unsurprisingly, I also failed
 to distinguish myself in any way whatsoever. 

<p>So, I'm walking around the school with Susan ('Ooh, the magnolia's
 still there!... Ah, what happened to 'The Mound'?... blimey,
 the tennis courts haven't been touched have they?') and feeling
 increasingly well-disposed towards a place about which I have
 had some decidedly dark feelings in the past, when we come across
 a garden bench dedicated to the memory of the late Miss Keens,
 one of whose thankless tasks was to teach me maths. It turns
 out that Miss Keens actually had a name, which was Ellen, and
 that she had started teaching at Notting Hill in 1947. I'd never
 known that, and I suddenly think I might cry. I was unforgiveably
 vile to Miss Ellen Keens, who was nothing short of saintly.
 

<p>We drop by the junior school, Redlands, which is in a separate
 building at the other end of the grounds and the place where
 I joined class 1A in September 1971. In my very first classroom,
 we interrupt the girls while they are making Easter bonnets.
 Though shrunken, the room is apparently unchanged, the teacher
 wears a perma-smile and there is much giggling. It is clearly
 a happy place. 'Once upon a time, I sat right here where you
 are and made an Easter bonnet, too,' I confide to an improbably
 sweet, demure and pretty little blonde. 'Do you like mine?'
 she wonders. Displaying the design sensibility of an Andrex
 puppy, her bonnet is probably the worst in the class. 'I think
 it's absolutely beautiful,' I tell her and tie the bow under
 her chin. 

<p>As I hunker down to help fold and stick tissue paper flowers
 on to other cardboard coolie hats, part of me wishes I could
 rewind the tape and do this all over again. 

<p>As I left Notting Hill a pretty miserable teenager, perhaps this
 is why the visit is a far more emotional experience than I had
 anticipated. From the sunny, Narnia-loving seven-year-old, turning
 up on the first day at big school in her brand-new, navy, felt
 panama, thick blazer, red bows and shiny black shoes, carrying
 a big gym bag with her initials embroidered in white, to the
 angsty, slouching, scuffed, frowning, hormonal, peroxided She-Devil
 of Six Lower, walking these corridors now feels like nine years
 of childhood concertinaed into a couple of hours. It's exhausting,
 exhilarating and depressing by turns, opening doors and peering
 into classrooms and - ohmygod! - suddenly seeing exactly the
 same desks. The varnish was already scarred with our names in
 the mid-1970s, but now it's obliterated. I spend a few minutes
 searching for my name but it would probably take a day to find
 it. 'I'm definitely here somewhere!' I explain self-consciously
 to a cluster of girls busy being intense and huddled, like 14-year-old
 girls invariably are, at the back of an empty classroom during
 lunch break. They smile politely, glance at my inappropriate
 heels, and turn back to their copies of Heat . 

<p>I shouldn't have stayed at Notting Hill for as long as I did,
 but I understand that my parents wanted some sort of continuity
 for me after they split. Later, when I was 13, my mother moved
 me so far from school that the journey was more like a commute,
 at which point I started truanting (though I'd have happily
 gone to boarding school - anything to get away), so I'm keen
 to talk to Susan about the point where the pursuit of academic
 excellence meets the need for pastoral care, and what she would
 do with someone who is now like I was then. 'I didn't enjoy
 school myself because, like you, I was moved up a year, so I
 was too young and I just don't think that works, particularly
 in terms of one's maturity and growing up socially, and it doesn't
 happen at this school any more. But, at the same time, there
 is a much greater responsibility for pastoral concerns. Emotions
 can get in the way of learning, so love, bereavement, whatever
 it is... you have to prepare young people for the things that
 can happen to them.' 

<p>I remember one careers advice session in Six Lower (dyed copper
 hair, a streak of peroxide hidden under my fringe), during which
 a teacher flicked all the way through a big dull book, from
 Actuary to Zoologist, and couldn't find anything she thought
 I might be any good at, only suggesting (perhaps because I was
 'difficult', or perhaps because of the hair) that I might like
 to apply to art college, despite not having much talent for
 art. 'If you were here now, I'd like to think that we would
 have spotted your skills and encouraged them and rewarded you,
 and that the confidence you discovered as a result would have
 gone some way to helping you cope with whatever was going on
 in your life outside school,' says Susan, and I tell her that,
 yes, that might have been nice, though it all turned out OK
 in the end. 

<p>I should have left Notting Hill in 1981, so this year sees the
 20th anniversary reunion of my classmates. I'm not sure whether
 I'll turn up on 14 September, because how many times can you
 go back, even to satisfy that whatever happened to...? curiosity
 about your peers? And then it strikes me that a school reunion
 is really about reuniting with the old you, recognising the
 similarities and celebrating the differences, rather than just
 sliding briefly in and out of the lives of people with whom
 one no longer has much in common apart from nine years of wearing
 navy box pleats and boaters. In which case, thanks to Susan
 Whitfield, the Easter bonnet-makers, the kick-boxing wannabe
 interior designers and the unique, potent smell of the place,
 I think I may already have had my reunion. And no disrespect
 to all the people who worked so hard to teach the ungrateful
 young Flett, but my fresh replacement memories of Notting Hill
 mean that it has now become the school I think I would have
 liked.



