
URL: http://primetimetv.about.com/library/blerrecap050202.htm
<h>Ring in the New Year with Ugly Betty

<p>Ugly may be the new beautiful, but SoapNet and ABC Family are
 about to upgrade to gorgeous just in time to ring in the New
 Year. ABC is launching a "Be Ugly '07" campaign that asks America
 to resolve to be real, be smart, be passionate, be true to yourself
 and be ugly, just like Ugly Betty in 2007. The campaign will
 be featured on Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve, where hundreds
 of Betty look-alikes will be in Times Square and Walt Disney
 World handing out Ugly Betty masks to help people see the world
 through Betty's eyes. 

<p>
 In an effort to get fans into the world of Betty, ABC Family
 will host a marathon of all 11 episodes on 12/31 from 9:00 a.m.-7:00
 p.m. ET and on SoapNet1/1/07 from 10:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m. ET. Whether
 you've watched every episode or none at all, this is the perfect
 time to begin watching one of the best new shows of the season!
 (Photo of America Ferrera © 2006 American Broadcasting Companies,
 Inc./Andrew Eccles 

<h>From Emmy Winner to Rodeo Champ

<p>Jack Bauer may have saved the country multiple times, but Kiefer
 Sutherland has proved that he really is the "Jack" of all trades.
 From actor to producer to director to band manager, Sutherland
 certainly keeps himself busy. The latest accomplishment on his
 resume is rodeo champion! Sutherland's rodeo days began back
 in 1998 when he took some time off from acting to pursue the
 rodeo circuit. Ride 'em cowboy! Season six of 24 is set to premiere
 in a two-hour, two-night special on January 14 and 15. 

<p>TV Land may not be as scandalous as Britney and K-Fed or Tom
 Cruise and Katie Holmes, but 2006 brought many a shocking and
 scandalous moment in the television world. From Lane Garrison's
 deadly accident and Michelle Rodriguez's two stints in the big
 house to Everwood's cancellation and the demise of the WB and
 UPN, the drama on the small screen has been just as shocking
 as what goes on behind closed doors. Find out what we think
 were the most shocking and scandalous moments in 2006....and
 may 2007 be jail-free for all of our favorite actors! 

<p>2006 has been a great year to be a television fan. As more people
 seem to be shying away from the big screen, the networks have
 been pulling out all the stops to lure people to the incredible
 drama the small screen has to offer. Actors such as James Woods,
 Ray Liotta, James Cromwell, Bridget Moynahan and Ali Larter
 have ditched their movie careers this year for a chance to star
 on one of the many fantastic dramas on television this season.
 As 2007 approaches, let's take a moment to reflect on what has
 kept that water cooler hopping over the past year. From that
 grand prison escape to saving the cheerleader and the world,
 find out what we think were the best moments of television in
 2006. (Photo of Ali Larter Copyright © 2006 NBC Universal, Inc./Michael
 Muller All rights reserved.)

<h>No Break for Day Break

<p>It looks like the Lost fans have spoken and ABC has listened
 -- effective immediately, ABC has yanked Day Break from the
 schedule. The series, meant to be a satisfactory replacement
 for Lost over the course of the 13-week hiatus, pulled in roughly
 4 million viewers each week. The series is still available for
 viewing on ABC.com, but as to whether or not ABC plans to air
 the remaining episodes online is yet to be determined. I may
 have been one of the very few fans of the series, but I'm hoping
 they provide some sort of closure. I, for one, would like to
 find out who really killed the D.A. and why Hopper keeps reliving
 the same day! 

<h>Dexter Finale Airs Tonight!

<p>The first season of Showtime's hit series about a Miami forensics
 expert by day and serial killer by night ends tonight at 10pm
 ET on Showtime in one major cliffhanger that will have fans
 screaming for more. What's ahead for the finale?

<p>
 As Dexter tries to follow the clues, he and the Ice Truck Killer
 have a final confrontation. Rita's ex tries to get her to realize
 that Dexter is a very dangerous man. Will she listen or stick
 by her man? 

<p>Unlike the Emmys, it always seems like the Golden Globes choose
 the nominees most television fans feel are the most deserving
 of recognition. Many times, these nominees are those who were
 snubbed at Emmy time, which of course makes for a much happier
 television fan. This year's nominees are a varied bunch and
 for the first time, I cannot think of one single nomination
 that is not much deserved! Newcomers Heroes, Ugly Betty, Dexter
 and Big Love scored nominations in major categories, but I think
 the Lost fans will be among the happiest since the series not
 only received a nod for Best Drama, but Evangeline Lily was
 also nominated for Best Actress in a Drama. The 64th Annual
 Golden Globe Awards will air on NBC on Monday, January 15, 2007.
 And the Nominees Are....(Photo of the Cast of Big Love © HBO
 Photo Credit: Ron Batzdorff)

<p>Many actors know they want to break into show business at an
 early age and live their lives based on their ambition. Some
 do go on to get college degrees, but usually don't make use
 of their education when they score a great gig. Misha Harris,
 an up-and-coming actress, has lived life to the fullest before
 appearing in her first acting role. After graduating with a
 degree in Social Sciences/Economics from USC, Misha had a successful
 career in real estate, worked as an asset manager for Barry
 Diller at USA Networks and trained to become a Master Chef from
 the Culinary Arts Institute for Food and Wine. I had the opportunity
 to chat with the very lovely Misha about her favorite beaches,
 the concept of a telenovella and her roles on My Network TV's
 Fashion House and Watch Over Me. (Photo of Misha Harris © Kevyn
 Major Howard)

<p>When we think of 24, instantly we feel tense and excited at the
 same time. Those jaw-clenching, edge-of-your-seat episodes are
 some of the very best television has to offer. I had the wonderful
 opportunity to chat with James Morrison, who portrays Bill Buchanan
 on the Emmy-winning series and discovered that not only is he
 one of the nicest actors I've had the pleasure of interviewing,
 but this calm and laid back actor is nothing at all like his
 alter ego on 24. Learn more about this interesting actor, what
 it's like going through life with a famous name and get some
 very interesting scoop on season six of the Emmy-winning series
 24. 

<p>Doesn't it seem like just yesterday that all our favorite shows
 premiered? Sick of repeats? It's almost cruel to make fans wait
 from May until September to learn the outcome of the cliffhangers,
 only to dangle some bait and force us to wait a month or two,
 or even three in some cases. It may seem like an eternity, but
 those winter blues won't last too long since our shows will
 be back before we know it. From the much-anticipated season
 six premiere of 24 to the agonizing long awaited return of Lost,
 find out when your favorite shows will return and begin counting
 the days! (Photo of America Ferrera © 2006 American Broadcasting
 Companies, Inc./Andrew Eccles)



