
URL: http://simon.incutio.com/archive/2002/07/17/leaveMyTextAlone
<h>Flash: Leave my text alone!

<p>Moment of realisation: I just figured out what it is about Flash
 that bugs me so much. Flash is rubbish at text. Sure it can
 render text in pretty ways, but it never feels like real words.
 Flash takes good old fashioned text and locks it away in a pretty
 but shallow world, one that is out of reach of search engines,
 screen readers and my all important right mouse button. What
 good is text is text if I can’t search it, select it, copy
 it, paste it and generally processs it in whatever way I see
 fit? Flash is fine for graphics, animation and even some user
 interfaces (provided they don’t involve too much text) but
 please, please keep it away from anything I want to read.

<l> Aha! The first even partially unresearched comment I have seen
 on here Mr. Skunkeh! (Not that my blog would be anywhere as
 near as good if i had one, but still, couldn't resist :P) Flash
 MX supports full text highlighting and copying :) Try it! Not
 sure about search engines tho. And to be fair, as Flash is a
 binary file its still not spidered by search engines (but who
 knows, with Google caching a large variety of files nowadays,
 maybe its just a matter of time). I say bring on SVG. 

<l> I still can't search it though, and more importantly I can't
 right click it to bring up my friendly context menu with "Search
 the web for X" or whatever. If I'm going to read text on the
 web I want it in nice, accessible HTML and there's not much
 that's likely to change my mind. I'm not anti flash, but I /am/
 anti text-in-flash - at least for anything longer than a sentence
 or two. Good to know you've been reading at any rate ;) 

<l> yeah, flash works differetly - i think that's the underlying
 grudge i've got with it - it's a different world html might
 be good or bad but it's what people are used to because that's
 what the www is - they get to know it's idiosyncrasies - they
 know if they do this, this happens - and if you don't spend
 your entire life on a computer that's plenty to be getting on
 with for people 

<l> SVG is a good call. Having looked at the VML stuff in IE, I
 imagine that SVG will be nearly as powerful (no, I haven't installed
 the Adobe plugin, I hate plugins, why do you ask? ;-)) and I
 can't see a lot that you can do in Flash that you can't do with
 SVG and Javascript. Maybe Flash will just go away. Or, better
 still, someone will write a Flash to HTML/JS/SVG converter.
 

<l> Maybe the only correct observation that I have seen in this
 blog. Most probably because it doesn't involve Microsoft. This
 is an observation I made long time ago. Flash sucks on text
 and that's why it is going to fail as a application platform.
 



