
URL: http://thorntree.lonelyplanet.com/categories.cfm?catid=30
<p>
 Most of the other branches have a 'sticky' FAQ post that always
 appears at the top of the branch (e.g. UK and Ireland, Shoestring,
 Phones, cameras and computers)

<p>
Now given that there are a few regulars in here who know what
 they're talking about in regards to long haul travel and also
 that there's been more than a few disputes about what belongs
 here and what doesn't maybe it's time instead of bitching at
 each other about trivial threads (yeah, I'm as guilty of this
 as anyone) or telling people to use the search button we did
 something constructive and put together a Long H ... more inside

<p>
Just wondering if anybody has taught English in Marseille and
 has some info on good schools. I'm a certified EFL teacher from
 the States with an EU passport and 2 years experience (Casablanca
 and Lisbon). Any tip or word of advice on teaching in Marseille
 (or in France in general) would be greatly appreciated. Likewise,
 if you are interested in teaching in Morocco or Portugal, I'd
 be happy to share!

<p>
 It seems a lot of people have trouble deciding whether to stay
 or go and I'm no exception. I'm debating about whether or not
 to go home to Canada for 12 days at the beginning of February.
 The main argument against this is that its 237 pounds I could
 be using for something else, like travel to another part of
 Europe or even just for the January sales happening now. Also
 the job I have I just started last week and I would need to
 ask for the time off. Whats pulling me towards home is that
 I'm a little homesick at the moment, it will be 4 months since
 I left in February and thats the longest I've ever not seen
 my family. And I know that they are sad about not having me
 for Christmas and such. I'm also looking forward to having someone
 else cook for me. My grandpa also isn't doing that well so I'd
 like to see him, especially since he gave me 4000 dollars to
 put towards this trip. I don't really want to travel until its
 warmer, so I have more time to save up my money again. What
 do you think? In the immortal words of the clash....Should I
 stay or should I go? 

<p>
 My younger brother is having a quarter-life crisis, and to
 inspire him to get out of his funk and stop sponging off our
 parents, I found a book for him called "Delaying the Real World:
 A Twentysomething's Guide to Seeking Adventure" by Colleen Kinder.

<p>
This is the most comprehensive and current guide to international
 work and volunteering opportunities I've ever seen. I highly
 recommend it. It's geared towards Americans, definitely, but
 would be useful to anyone contemplating a long haul. Too bad
 I'm not in my twenties anymore...

<p>
I'm new here and was just wondering what the chances are of
 getting work in the USA in bars or restaurants? I am British
 and live in the UK. Will I need a visa to work less than 90
 days or will I need one to work at all? I don't have a job to
 go to, I'm just interested to see if it's worth going for?

<p>
 I'm a 21 year old Aussie female, due to arrive in London in
 Feb, hopefully with savings of around $7000-8000AUD. I'll be
 on a working holiday permit, with my main aim being to see as
 much of Europe as possible. 
I'm currently considering finding
 a job in London immediately, saving some more, then starting
 some travel when the weather fines up from about May. Do I run
 the risk of using too much of my initial savings just setting
 myself up in London? 
Would I be better off getting away from
 London, travelling around for a bit first then finding a job
 when the funds run low? This is my first trip overseas. Any
 tips most welcome! 
Cheers 

<p>
few month ago I posted the same question, leaving or staying?
 I did not get a point, I am confused without any plans. Already
 4 years ago I had my gap year and travelled through Australia.
 I loved it, but when I flew home and also spent time in SEA
 like Cambodia, Thailand and Laos I got the effect of travelling.
 I cannot stop thinking of going again, I am back into my normal
 life I am back at the same job - actually things I already wanted
 to change before I left the first time. With my heart I am always
 on the way, I know its good for me to go again. On the other
 side there are my parents, my friends. my kolleques and nobody
 ever understand me. The put a bad, very bad conscience in my
 mind. When I turn back of a one year travelling I am 30 and
 I will never find a job easy. Economic in Germany is getting
 worse every day, and prices go up every day also. I must be
 happy of having a save job, today! Thats the opinion of everybody.
 There are about 15 close people around me and nobody is on my
 side. Nobody! And I think it brakes my conviction.
I know this
 is a traveller forum, and of course you all ganna tell me, Inge
 go, but is there s ... more inside

<p>
 I am 45yo white male (US) who is based in Asia (in/out 15 years)
 - Cynical "old Asia hand/professional backpacker type". I am
 looking for a liberal, eccentric travel mate (female) who is
 perpetual world (regional) traveler with similar tastes/likes
 dislike for LTR. My budget is about US475-525 per month. Have
 a look at my profile. I am currently in states till May 07 due
 to parental health issue. 

<p>
Well aquainted with all of South and East Asia. 10 year visa
 for India.

<p>
 Hey everyone,
I'm a pretty seasoned traveller (been to 40+
 countries on 6 continents) but I'm now looking for more of the
 places that are less touristed. So far, I've mostly done "the
 routes," the standard trails of your average backpacker in various
 parts of the world. The places I've spent the least time are
 South America (except Peru) and Africa (except Tanzania and
 South Africa). I'm curious what places you've come across where
 you may have been one of the only non-local faces around. No
 matter what continent or country, what countries (especially)
 or cities or regions have you visited and found relatively unspoilt
 by the tourist dollar?

<p>
 I'm thinking of getting a teaching job in China, but worried
 about making a commitment sight unseen. If I get a work visa,
 am i then completely bound for the school i teach for? Or could
 i quit the job and stay in China, working somewhere else or
 travelling? Could my employer revoke the visa or otherwise get
 me in trouble?

<p>
Worried because there are so many horror stories about English
 schools in Asia... 

<p>
 Hi, I have a very basic plan I want to either volunteer/work
 in central or south america. Im pretty flexiable at this stage,
 was thinking maybe Guatemala, Peru, Argentina or Bolivia (But
 where-ever). Im not out to make money. Hopefully just enough
 to get by. My Spanish is non-exsistance but will hopefully be
 getting betterafter some courses. Has anyone had any dealings
 with good/bad/indifferent agencies or companies. Any information
 or advice would be greatly appriated.
Cheers
Matt 

<p>
 Hello,
I'm an American social worker looking into working abroad
 and was wondering if there were any others out there on thorn
 tree. I'm curious about different peoples' experiences and jobs.
 Any input from any nationality is welcome. 

<p>
I am a 25 year old girl from Germany. I am currently working
 in the hotel industry here in GErmany, but am not too happy
 about my situation and am thinking about starting my studies.
 I would love to study something like Development studies or
 foreign languages (to become a translater later), especially
 English and Spanish. I don´t wanna stay in Germany and am thinking
 about studying in an English speaking country, as it is the
 only foreign language that I speak and write pretty well (compared
 to my Spanish skills). At the moment, I am trying to find out,
 where there are courses that would fit best into my future.
 I am thinking about the UK, as well as South Africa. (I would
 love to study in the USA, but I wouldn´t be able to finance
 it). Can anyone recommend another English speaking country,
 that I haven´t thought of yet, where I could study things like
 Development studies or foreign languages. Would be thankful
 for any general information...:-) Also, any recommendations
 about universities in the UK or South Africa, considering the
 subjects, I would like to study? 

<p>
 Hi all! It's my first post on this branch, so please be gentle.
 I've been in China for eight years, but am about ready to think
 of moving on to cleaner pastures. I've got a master's in music
 education, but have discovered that I really like teaching ESL.
 One doesn't necessarily need qualifications in China, but if
 I want to work in other places I'll need something more. I've
 looked into master's programs, but don't really want to spend
 a year or so studying. (Another reason is that I don't really
 want to spend a year or so in the US; I love my country, but
 I prefer living overseas and visiting for six weeks every winter!)
 I found a Cambridge Celta program in Thailand that fits my schedule
 for this summer. The Celta is supposed to be recognized world-wide.
 It's a four-week intensive program. The cost of the course is
 US $1,400 or so. The International House Bangkok sponsors it.
 I'm interested in the one in Chiang Mai. 

<p>
I'm seeking comments on the pros and cons of getting a Cambridge
 Celta and on my perception that having one will open doors for
 jobs ... more inside

<p>
 Hi my friend and I are planning to travel the Silk road in
 aug 08. We really need advice on if its safe for 2 females to
 travel, what the countries are like , any info we need to know,
 how to get hold of local guides and final thing how easy is
 it to teach en route! If anyone has any ideas please reply would
 be most grateful. x 

<p>
I'm an American woman pondering an assignment in Algiers. I
 am curious to hear the experiences of others in this country
 or those like it. Comments from solo female expats would be
 most welcome, but information from anyone who has lived and
 worked in Algeria as a native or a visitor would help a LOT.
 It's hard to find a solid body of knowledge anywhere online.
I
 have previous expat experience, but it was in Switzerland. It
 was conservative but I do fear that Maghreb nations may be even
 more so. Can anyone offer advice on the following:
- security
-
 apartments
- the chance of mingling with locals (I know no Arabic
 but plan to study; I am fluent in French.)
- nightlife
- English
 language news/French language news
- internet availability
-
 everyday work life
- banking and finances
- dating (does it
 exist as we westerners know it??)/birth control/sex
- cost of
 living
- clothing, i.e. acceptable dress, where to find clothes
 and shoes for an average sized woman (US 8-10)
- local customs
 and food 
- healthcare, including dental care

<p>
I'm very excited about the opportunity but there are just so
 ... more inside

<p>
Wasn't sure what branch would be the best to post this on, but
 seeing as it is about a friend who is moving to the UK indefinitely,
 thought I'd give it a go here! :)

<p>
I have a guy friend who is about to move to London, and I am
 wanting to give him a farewell gift but I want it to be sorta
 creative... and I was wondering if anyone had been given (or
 have given someone else!) a farewell present that was really
 well received... I need some ideas!

<p>
The things that may need to be factored in are...

<p>
His age - he is 24
His nationality - Aussie 
The fact that he
 has travelled extensively around the world prior to this but
 that this is his first indefinite move across the oceans (therefore
 has all the obvious travel equipment)
And the fact that this
 gift can't take up too much space as he is attempting to pack
 his life into the weight limit that the airline has set for
 regular luggage...



