
URL: http://truetex.com/garage.htm
<p> They said it was a job for "professionals only".  They said
 you'd wind up in the emergency room, or worse. 
    But I had
 the Web.  I took the ultimate do-it-yourselfer's risk. 
   

<h>
 How I Replaced Deadly Garage Door Torsion Springs 

<h>And lived to tell the tale.

<p>
 Have a comment or question on my garage door repair?
 Email
 me at:kinch@truetex.com
 Richard J. Kinch
 Back to Home page

<p>Do-it-yourselfer. Still living.

<p> This page is a description of how I replaced torsion springs
 on a garage door. You may find that my experience either frightens
 you from trying such a stunt yourself, or encourages you to
 give it a try. You may curse me for revealing the techniques
 supposedly known only to the trade, or perhaps thank me for
 explaining how it's done. All the secrets are revealed below.
 Even if you hire this work out, just knowing how it is done
 will help you shop for the best deal and avoid falling prey
 to overcharging tricks. 

<p> Torsion springs are devices that lift most of the weight of
 a garage door so that the door can be opened manually or by
 an electric opener. The torsion principle is applied via an
 efficient and economical apparatus consisting of a torsion shaft
 under spring torsion, which turns lift drums, which wind cables
 attached to the door near the bottom. All of this apparatus
 is mounted over the top of the door. The energy stored is sufficient,
 in an uncontrolled release, to break things, hurt you, or perhaps
 even kill you. The same could be said of jacking up your car
 to change a tire, or mowing your lawn, or raising children,
 so it is not crazy to want to do this yourself. 

<p> This page does not discuss what are called "extension springs",
 which are involved in a different door lift design that use
 springs running above the horizontal portion of the door track,
 perpendicular to the door. Replacement of extension springs
 is an easier task that is more amenable to do-it-yourself (DIY)
 effort. 

<h> Hey, Isn't This Dangerous or Illegal for Us Do-It-Yourselfers?
 

<p> If you've researched this subject at all, you will no doubt
 have heard that you shouldn't be attempting torsion spring replacement
 as a do-it-yourselfer. That is generally good advice, so if
 you have any doubts about your abilities to do risky physical
 work on your own, hire the job out like everyone else. I found
 I was capable of doing this work with acceptable risk, because
 I intelligently understood the techniques, paid careful attention
 to methods and safety, knew how to use common tools in good
 condition, properly improvised the special tools I didn't have,
 and diligently attended to correctly performing a few moments
 of hazardous manipulation. I learned to do it purely on my own
 based mostly on bits of advice reluctantly given in Internet
 forums such as the Usenet newsgroup alt.home.repair. When I
 first wrote this page in 2002, there was no other do-it-yourself
 information available on the Web, and it was not until 2005
 that reliable information disclosing the techniques started
 to appear elsewhere (see links below). 

<p> I am also an engineer, and have always done a lot of mechanical
 repairs around the house. I also operate my own laboratory machine
 shop, and do some mechanical design work there. This background
 helped me figure things out, but nothing that involved is critical
 to repairing a standard garage door. 

<p> This work is risky, but the risk is comparable to doing your
 own car repairs, or climbing on the roof of your house to clean
 your gutters. These are dangerous things that many people can
 do safely, but that safety depends on intelligent understanding
 and application of proper techniques. Professional door repair
 technicians, who are fully knowledgable, skilled, and experienced,
 report that they nevertheless are injured from time to time,
 despite their best efforts. You need to coldly evaluate your
 abilities and motivations, to judge whether you can manage the
 risks of this work for the benefit of the money and time you
 might save. 

<h> Obtaining Parts May Be the Hardest Part of the Job 

<p> Even if you are intelligent and skilled enough to do this repair,
 and as much as it may frustrate your instincts for self-sufficiency,
 you may be prevented from doing this work yourself by a system
 of commerce that refuses to take your money for the parts. 

<p> Manufacturers and distributors of torsion springs believe they
 are better off not retailing their product directly to the public.
 They believe they are maintaining higher prices for their product
 by restricting sales "to the trade." One brochure for parts
 even flatly stated, "We do not sell to the end user. We protect
 our dealers," which would seem to be prima facie evidence of
 an illegal restraint-of-trade scheme. But this is an old story
 which is true of virtually every product and service, going
 back to medieval guilds and before. 

<p> Repair of garage doors is a licensed trade in many jurisdictions,
 and manipulation of the market inevitably follows. Look in your
 phone book yellow-pages under "garage doors" and you'll find
 a lot of big, costly ads for door service. The profits are quite
 juicy, I'm sure. The customers need service urgently, and this
 need will typically arrive suddenly and at a busy time when
 shopping for prices is not convenient. A few dollars in parts,
 an hour of labor and travel, and a $150 invoice (assuming the
 outfit is charging fairly, some are not). Lately (2006) I hear
 of outfits charging $200 or $300 for this work, and occasionally
 a story of a $500 or $800 service call. You'll also find the
 phonebook advertisers waiting eagerly for your call, because
 artificially high prices inevitably lead to an oversupply of
 service firms working under capacity. 

<p> Those who benefit from this anti-competitive behavior have many
 excuses for it. They claim that the product is too dangerous
 and infrequently needed for the public to purchase directly.
 They say the job is hazardous and requires techniques and tools
 with which the amateur will rarely practice, which is true.
 They write me in anger saying I don't understand how expensive
 it is to put a truck on the road with a technician and parts
 and salary and benefits and insurance and advertising and every
 other common business expense. They say it will take the homeowner
 hours of effort to do this safely and correctly, while they
 can do it in a fraction of that time and at a price that isn't
 worth the effort to save. But should they set themselves up
 as the judge of what you can and cannot do? Of what is an economical
 use of your time? Imposing minimum order quantities or charging
 retail prices for small orders is legitimate; inquiring into
 the purchaser's background is not. 

<p> If this manipulative, we-are-your-nanny business approach is
 truly in our best interests as consumers, then we shouldn't
 be allowed near ladders, lawn mowers, or power tools. Those
 products are just as hazardous and prone to misuse as torsion
 springs, yet no one thinks of them as forbidden. The only genuine
 difference is that torsion springs are a hazardous thing you
 need only rarely, while a lawn mower is a hazardous thing you
 need all the time. 

<p> The one excuse that makes the most sense is, "if we sell springs
 to a do-it-yourselfer, and he gets hurt installing it, we could
 get sued." I can sympathize with someone who wants to sell only
 to the trade and not bother with the risk of a spurious product
 liability lawsuit from an ignorant member of the public. But
 the lawn-mower dealers have figured out how to manage that kind
 of exposure, so this is not an absolute barrier to retailing
 garage door parts to the public. It doesn't explain why torsion
 springs at retail are virtually non-existent. 

<p> These are just my observations as a consumer; I am not on a
 crusade to change the garage door industry. But I will observe
 that the Web is the innovation that can finally give intelligent
 consumers the advantage in these commercial games. Trade restraints
 work only when all sellers in the market collude in and agree
 to the scheme. If anyone, anywhere is selling freely, then the
 Web can help you find them. In the years since I have first
 published this information, a number of reputable Web-based
 merchants have appeared to supply the parts you need to repair
 your garage door as a do-it-yourselfer (and I have linked many
 of them below). 

<p> For the industry point of view, see: 

<l> Door and Access Systems Manufacturers Association (DASMA), http://www.dasma.com.
 Also has excellent technical data sheets on garage doors. This
 trade group consolidated the older Door Operator and Remote
 Controls Manufacturers (DORCMA) and National Association of
 Garage Door Manufacturers (NAGDM) 

<l> The International Door Association, http://www.doors.org. This
 is chiefly a dealers' and contractors' group, with a strong
 trade-protection attitude. 

<l> Institute of Door Dealer Education And Accreditation, http://www.dooreducation.com.
 

<h> The Life and Death of Torsion Springs 

<p> The most common grade of torsion springs have an expected life
 of about 10,000 cycles. The hardened and tempered steel experiences
 tremendous forces each time the door opens or closes. Gradually,
 the steel fatigues with each flexure, and eventually cracks
 and breaks, usually releasing its stored energy in an instant
 with a horrific "sproing" noise or bang. If you average about
 two car trips per day, opening and closing the door a total
 of 4 times daily when you come and go, then that expected life
 becomes 2500 days, or only about 7 years. If you have an automatic
 opener, then if you're like me, you tend to cycle the door even
 more frequently, and can expect the need for spring replacement
 even sooner. Moreover, my three-car garage has three doors,
 so on average I can expect a repair job every few years. Over
 a lifetime, it is very economical to do these repairs myself.
 

<p> One of these "sproing" events at our house finally motivated
 me to research how these repairs are done. This happened in
 2002, after my wife parked the car and shut the door. After
 the door closed, there was a loud noise that she could only
 describe as, "a big spring snapping and vibrating". Although
 I have hired professionals several times in the past to install
 or repair garage doors, the difference this time was the innovation
 of Google and newsgroups like alt.home.repair. I was determined
 to learn the process and to search for online parts vendors.
 

<p> Since the springs are winding "up" when the door is closing
 and going down, the fully closed position is the most stressful
 on the steel and thus the most likely position at the moment
 of failure. This is a good thing, because failure near the top-of-travel
 means that you suddenly have a large, increasing weight falling.
 Thus we see the principle that you should never be standing
 or walking under the door when it is opening or closing, especially
 if you do so manually instead of with an electric opener. When
 the springs are working correctly, the door appears nearly weightless,
 but this is an illusion that turns into a calamity when the
 springs suddenly fail. 

<p> This is your last chance to turn back! I will now describe how
 I replaced torsion springs. Avert your gaze and read no further,
 lest you be tempted to do likewise! 

<p> Here's a view of my door and its broken torsion spring. This
 door is 10 feet wide and 7 feet high, constructed of 3/4 thick
 hollow wood panels inside with 3/4 inch plywood siding outside
 to match the house exterior. This is original to the house which
 was constructed in 1978, and is much heavier (238 pounds, as
 I measured later as described below) than the steel doors most
 common today in new construction. The 10-foot width is a little
 larger than usual for a one-car garage; such doors are typically
 only 7 or 9 feet wide. The ceiling height is 9 feet, providing
 18 inches clearance above the torsion shaft. This is in a 3-car
 garage with 3 separate extra-wide doors. Every man's dream!
 ('cept when the door is broke.) 

<p> The torsion shaft with lift drums on the ends is above the door.
 The standard residential door shaft is a 1-inch outside diameter
 hollow steel tube. The inside diameters of the bearings, drums,
 and winding cones are sized to loosely fit that 1-inch diameter
 shaft. At the center is a bearing plate, on either side of which
 are the torsion springs, or in some cases just one larger spring.
 The spring pictured on the left in the photo is broken about
 1/4 of the way in from its left end. The black shaft with dangling
 rope and door bracket is the track for the electric opener.
 

<p> The inside of the door panels bear a few dings, since filled
 with Bondo, from my teenage boys shooting hockey pucks. The
 streaks on the right that look like dinosaur claw scratches
 came from operating the door inadvertently when the rear doors
 of a van were open. The responsibility for these scars is all
 mine; they have also been Bondo-filled. We tend to use a lot
 of Bondo around our house. The crud on the walls and ceiling
 are cobwebs and dust infiltrates. 

<p> Here's a close-up of that left spring showing how it broke.
 The winding cone has 1/2-inch round sockets every 90 degrees
 for the insertion of round winding bars. Two 3/8" square-head
 set-screws fasten the cone to the torsion shaft. 

<p> Note the left winding cone with red spray paint. This shpritz
 of paint is applied to create fear and doubt in the mind of
 the do-it-yourselfer. Sometimes it is a color code for the wire
 size (using a DASMA standard, red indicating 0.2253 inch diameter
 wire). Sometimes it indicates the winding direction: red may
 indicate right-hand winding, but don't rely on that; do you
 own independent analysis. Sometimes it is a manufacturer's private
 code for another dimension than wire size. This color code is
 for the installer's information when the spring is new; I would
 not depend on interpreting the color code properly on an old
 spring, since one can't be certain of a correct interpretation
 without documentation from the original supplier. 

<p> The wire size and winding direction are easily discovered and
 proved, as I will explain below. You absolutely need to know
 and understand the critical measurements of your old springs
 to order replacements. This assumes that the old springs were
 the correct to begin with; it is not uncommon to have incorrectly
 sized springs on a door due to a previous sloppy installation,
 or a significant change in weight of the door. 

<p> You must use springs that are matched to the weight of the door.
 You cannot compensate for the wrong size spring by adjusting
 the number of winding turns. If you do not know a proper spring
 size, then you or your spring supplier must calculate a proper
 size (see below) based on an accurate weight (within 5 pounds)
 of the door. So you must then in turn have an accurate weight.
 

<p> When ordering springs, be aware that a number of different sizes
 of springs will make proper replacements, not just the specific
 size being replaced. The wire size, winding diameter, and length
 can be traded off to make springs of varied geometry but equivalent
 torque characteristics. This will also affect the expected lifetime
 (in cycles) for the spring(s). Since the critical specification
 for a replacement is the weight it is designed to bear, not
 the sizes per se, there are likely several stock sizes that
 replace a given old spring. The spring distributor's inventory
 may happen to offer only a different size with an equivalent
 weight-bearing specification. One has to judge whether to trust
 the advice of the seller in such situations. The seller should
 have the data to know what substitutions are proper. 

<p> The right side of the photo shows the center bearing plate where
 the stationary cones attach with two bolts. Some doors may have
 only one spring rather than two equal ones as shown here (indeed,
 old marks on the shaft show that this door originally had one
 spring about twice as long on one side). Above the center bearing
 plate is the bracket and track from the electric opener. 

<p>Critical measurements: Torsion springs come a variety of standardized
 sizes, so you have to carefully measure the old springs to know
 what to order for proper replacements. Tables of standard sizes
 and designs are on the Web, such as here [www.industrialspring.com].
 The four critical measurements (all in inches) are: (1) the
 wire thickness (which I'm measuring here with a dial caliper;
 you can also measure the length of a number of closely stacked
 turns with a ruler and divide by the number of turns in the
 stack, measuring 10 turns this way makes the math easy), (2)
 the inside diameter (not outside!) of the relaxed (not wound!)
 coil, (3) the overall length of the relaxed (not wound!) spring
 coils, not including the winding cones, and (4) the right- or
 left-hand winding of the spring. One must glibly quote those
 figures to the spring supplier, otherwise one's lack of expertise
 will be obvious, and one will not be worthy of buying the parts.
 

<p>Measure springs only when relaxed: Measurements must be taken
 on a relaxed spring because the winding adds significant overall
 length while reducing the coiled diameter. If you have a paired
 design, and one is broken and one is intact, then don't try
 to measure the length of the intact spring with the door down.
 A wound spring has 7 or 8 turns adding to the overall length,
 and will therefore be about 2 inches longer than when relaxed.
 Measure the lengths of the pieces of the broken spring, which
 will be unwound, and add them together. As a check, one can
 measure the length of the intact spring after it is unwound
 in the procedure to follow below. 

<p> The various increments of standard wire sizes differ by only
 about 0.010 inch, so calipers or a micrometer would be the tool
 to use to be certain of the stepped size you have, or else a
 trustworthy ruler marked in tenths of an inch to use the measure-10-turns-and-divide-by-10
 trick. The most common wire sizes in the US are 0.207", 0.218",
 0.225", 0.234", 0.243", 0.250", and 0.262". 

<p> Note that I am measuring a spring that is fully relaxed because
 it is broken!. The length of the relaxed, unbroken spring is
 the specification of interest. It is harder to measure unbroken
 springs on an intact door because the springs should not fully
 unwind, even at the top-of-travel. If you can't be certain of
 the spring diameter from indications on the cones, then you
 have to go through an unwinding procedure to relax them fully
 for measurement, or perhaps reckon the size from measuring the
 somewhat smaller diameter at the nearly unwound condition when
 the door is at its top-of-travel (although one should not attempt
 to raise a door with a broken spring). 

<p>Right-hand versus left-hand winding: Springs are wound or "laid"
 in either a left- or right-hand orientation. If you were to
 grasp the spring in your hand, and if your right hand orients
 the tips of your fingers like the ends of the coiled wire when
 your thumb points "out" of the core of the spring, then you
 have a right-hand spring; likewise left (which end you grasp
 does not matter). (This also happens to match the "right hand
 rule" of magnetic polarity, if you happen to be knowledgeable
 in such esoteric subjects.) Another way to identify the winding
 is to examine the spring vertically in front of you; if the
 coils facing you rise going to the right, it is right-hand (thus
 you can remember, "rise to the right is right-hand"), and likewise
 left indicates left-hand. Another way is to view the coil axially;
 a right-hand spring winds in a clockwise direction as it recedes
 away, and a left-hand spring counter-clockwise. Yet another
 way, not so easy to remember, is to hold the spring vertically
 and compare the coil shape to the letter "Z" (indicates right-hand
 lay) or the letter "S" (indicates left-hand lay). 

<p> Confused? A last resort is to compare the winding of the spring
 coils to the threads on an ordinary screw or bolt, which threads
 lay in a right-handed winding along the axis. 

<p> An enantiomorphic (mirrored) pair of springs, such as my standard
 door uses, will consist of one left-hand and one right-hand
 spring. Note that this "right" and "left" has nothing necessarily
 to do with whether the spring is mounted on the left or right
 of the center bearing plate. Indeed, with my standard door,
 if you stand inside the garage, facing out, then the spring
 to the left is a right-hand-wound spring, and the spring to
 the right is a left-hand-wound spring. The photos above and
 below of the broken spring show that it is a right-hand-wound
 spring. 

<p>End treatments: Torsion springs also are made in a variety of
 end treatments. The "standard torsion end" is most common, as
 is pictured in my examples, consisting simply of a short, straight
 length of wire projecting tangentially. Various non-standard
 end treatments have longer "ears", U-turns, ends bent in toward
 the center or along the axis, or even loops. Non-standard ends
 are used in end fasteners peculiar to various manufacturers,
 which would seem to serve mostly as a guarantee that you buy
 overpriced replacements from that one source. 

<p> The replacement springs in my case proved to be 0.2253 wire
 size, 2.0 inch (inside) diameter, and 24 inches long, in a pair
 of one left- and one right-hand winding. Actually, the old springs
 in these pictures were a slightly smaller size, but another
 similar door on this garage was better balanced by that size.
 Whoever installed the old springs didn't quite get the weight
 and size just right; it is not unusual to find a repair service
 installing a slightly off-balance spring size that happened
 to already be on the truck during the service call. My electric
 opener had no trouble handling the small imbalance. But since
 it is safer to reduce the electric operating force as much as
 possible through careful balancing, I chose the size that was
 working better on the other door. The Chamberlain brand electric
 openers (also sold by Sears) I have incorporate a plastic worm
 gear that tends to wear out after some years of use, requiring
 a disassembly and installation of a $20 repair kit; this wear
 is minimized by a properly balanced door. 

<p> Correct spring size is determined by factors such as the weight
 and height of the door. You cannot substitute a different spring
 and just tighten or loosen the winding to make it balance the
 load. Why? To maintain cable tension under all operating conditions,
 the spring must retain about one turn of unspent wind-up at
 the top-of-travel position, which with the lift drum size and
 door height predetermines the number of turns of winding at
 the bottom-of-travel; and furthermore the torsion of the fully-wound
 spring at the bottom-of-travel must be slightly less than that
 needed to lift the weight of the door when translated by the
 lift drums. In my judgment, mistakenly putting in the wrong
 spring and having an incorrectly operating door would be more
 of a hazard than the actual winding process, if you were attempting
 this work without enough information. 

<p> Although the door weight and drum size determine the maximum
 torque (termed MIP, maximum inch-pounds) needed from the fully-wound
 spring(s), the spring selection for a given door can still be
 varied to adjust the cycling stresses. A heavier wire on a larger
 diameter or longer length will produce the same torque as a
 lighter wire on a smaller diameter or shorter length, while
 undergoing less stress and therefore increasing expected cycle
 lifetime. The heavier spring will cost more but last longer,
 so this is another design trade-off. Calculating these spring
 sizes in the field is done using a book of tables (or the software
 equivalent) that we cannot provide here, although you will find
 the formulas to estimate spring properties below. If you can
 accurately provide the weight of the door, or the size(s) of
 the old spring(s) (assuming they were well-matched to balance
 the door), then a spring dealer should be able to tell you which
 spring sizes will work for you. 

<p> A spring design manual, also called a rate book, gives tables
 that relate the torque constant ("rate") and maximum turns for
 springs of given wire size, diameter, and length. For example,
 a typical page in a rate book would show a table for a given
 wire size and inside diameter, the maximum inch-pounds (MIP)
 of torque available for a standard lifetime of 10,000 cycles
 in that size, the weight of the spring per linear inch, and
 the rates of the spring (as IPPT, inch-pounds per turn) for
 each of various lengths. From these figures one can calculate
 the lifting capacity, substitutions, conversions, and cycle
 life upgrades for a door of given weight and drum geometry.
 The weight-lifting capacity of a given spring is calculated
 based on its torque constant (IPPT, or inch-pounds per turn),
 which is the rotational version of the spring constant that
 characterizes the spring. The IPPT constant is found from tables
 giving IPPT for given spring dimensions (wire-size/diameter/length).
 The same tables may indicate the maximum number of turns for
 various expected lifetimes in cycles. The torque required to
 balance a given door can be calculated from the weight of the
 door times the moment arm of the drums (as we have done above).
 The ultimate torque of the spring in the fully-wound condition
 is the number of turns (when fully-wound) times the IPPT constant.
 Choosing a spring to balance the door then simply requires matching
 the ultimate torque of the spring to the balancing torque. 

<p>Beware of improprer prior installations: Sometimes the existing
 door installation is not correct, and the old springs should
 not be used as a specification for replacements. For example,
 the old springs might have been replaced with incorrect sizes
 because the last repairman didn't have the right one on his
 truck. If your door has never worked quite right, something
 like this might be the cause. To correct this, you must use
 the weight of the door to specify the spring, either from a
 spring rate manual giving spring torque constants, or from the
 formulas below. 

<p>Unmatched or mismatched pair: You may find that you have a pair
 of springs that are different sizes. This typically happens
 when a repairman did not have the exact springs on hand, and
 used one lighter and one heavier spring to match the correct
 lift. Some repair shops even do this deliberately, since a few
 stock sizes of springs can be combined in mismatched pairs to
 fit a wider range of door weights than only matched pairs. Or,
 one spring from a pair may have broken and been replaced but
 with a different size. Such unmatched pairs can work properly,
 but are not the most economical configuration, because the smaller
 will tend to wear out a bit earlier than the heavier. Having
 a mismatched pair also makes it difficult to specify the correct
 matched-pair replacements. If you need to obtain replacement
 springs for a mismatched pair, you can either specify the same
 odd pair, try to calculate the equivalent matched pair sizes,
 or (this is the best method:) measure an accurate door weight
 and calculate the right spring size(s) "from scratch". The spring
 seller should be able to do the calculations from your accurate
 measurements of weight, height, and drum size; or you can attempt
 the calculations yourself using my engineering formulas below.
 

<p> This is the electric opener which operates this door. I'm picturing
 it here because you need to pull the rope to disconnect the
 trolley, run the trolley under power to the fully-open position,
 and then disconnect power before working on the door. Then you
 need to lock the door down with either the security locks or
 with Vise-Grips or c-clamps. This avoids the door lifting when
 you don't expect it as you are applying spring adjustments.
 It you were to foolishly overwind the spring without the door
 locked down, you could possibly find the door trying to leap
 up to the raised position when you aren't prepared. That would
 likely knock your grip off the winding rods, with potentially
 disastrous results. I like to work under the safety principle
 that serious accidents should be physically possible only when
 you make two or more stupid mistakes at the same time. 

<p> A tape measure is fine for learning the overall length of the
 relaxed spring. The gap where it is broken shouldn't be counted
 in the length, nor should the winding cones, just the wire part
 as if it were relaxed and unbroken. This length for standard
 springs is commonly an even number of inches. 

<p> Here are the new replacement springs I ordered from a distributor,
 which I found using a Google search for "garage door supply"
 (search that phrase now). You certainly won't find these at
 Home Depot or Lowe's (although last I checked Lowe's does carry
 the less daunting extension spring replacements). I also have
 a list of some suppliers at the end of this page. 

<p> Cost was $88 for 2 pairs of springs, plus $21 shipping. (I had
 to order 2 pairs to meet the $50 minimum order.) They came with
 new cones inserted as shown at that price, so I didn't bother
 trying to remove and reuse the old cones to save a few dollars.
 The cones are quite difficult to remove from old springs and
 to insert in new ones, and the spring supplier will have the
 right tooling to do that easily. That was the best price I could
 find on the Web, and didn't seem out of line with what parts
 like this might cost at at the building supply (if they only
 sold them). Contractors buy these much cheaper in quantities;
 they're just an ordinary high-carbon steel spring wire turned
 on a winding machine. I also found Web sites asking a lot more
 money, obviously trying to cash in on search-engine traffic
 from do-it-yourselfers. Others report that some local dealers
 sell springs at retail, but at a high price that eliminates
 any economy versus having them installed. 

<p> Spring pairs should be replaced together, since the mate is
 likely to fail soon after the first, and any possible savings
 in parts isn't worth the extra effort to repeat the work later.
 

<p> These springs weighed in at just over 9 pounds each, including
 the winding cones. They are covered with a light film of oil,
 and at this point the job starts to get messy. The manufacturer
 has painted them with a "225B24" part number, which no doubt
 indicates the 0.2253 inch wire size, 24 inches long. Perhaps
 the "B" indicates the 2-inch inside diameter. Both the left-
 and right-hand springs have this same number on them. 

<p> I repeat my caution about the uncertainty of interpreting color
 codes. A professional installer reading this page emailed me
 to say that the red color indicates the springs are right-hand
 windings, not the DASMA color code for the wire size. But this
 photo shows both a right- and a left-hand spring, and both have
 the red paint on the cones and set-screws. I conclude it is
 prudent to make your own measurements and analysis. Do not rely
 on the colors on old installations. The only time I would respect
 them would be on new parts that carried documentation giving
 the code. 

<p> Yet another professional wrote me to say that the red paint
 on certain components of these assemblies is an "industry standard"
 that signals, "Danger! Part under hazardous tension." Other
 items under tension like the bolts on the cable attachment plate
 on the door should therefore also be painted red. If so, then
 this is a new, ambiguous, unreliable, and little-publicized
 standard, because none of my old hardware shows it, red paint
 also means other things, and searching the Web does not readily
 turn up references to this practice. 

<p> Springs should be handled with some care so as not to nick or
 abrade the wire. Such flaws can weaken or stress the wire, leading
 to premature failure. This caution applies to every step in
 the process of shipping, storage, installation, and usage. 

<p> Here is what a winding cone looks like without the spring. The
 threads that grip the inside of the spring coils are ambidextrous,
 so you can use the same part on either right- or left-hand-wound
 springs. 

<p> The two set-screws in the winding cones have a 3/8-inch square
 head, which fits a 3/8-inch open-end wrench or 8-point socket,
 or a 7/16-inch 12-point socket or 12-point closed-end wrench.
 I carried an extra wrench in my pocket while winding, since
 I didn't want to be holding a wound spring that I couldn't set
 because I had dropped the wrench (although one could rest the
 winding rod against the door in this case while picking up a
 dropped tool). 

<p> I decided later to use an ordinary open-end wrench rather than
 this socket or a box-end wrench to turn this fastener. The extra
 play fits the crude square heads better, and if the cone were
 to accidentally let loose, an open-end wrench would be the least
 likely tool to stay on the head and turn into a flying hazard.
 

<p> The standard winding tools are simply a pair of 18-inch lengths
 of mild steel rod, 1/2-inch diameter. Winding cones can have
 different socket sizes (such as 5/8 inch instead of 1/2 inch),
 so it is important to measure the socket and select a matching
 rod diameter. Also beware that poor-quality cones may have a
 sloppy fit to the winding bars, and a loose fit presents a severe
 hazard of slipping at the worst moment; anything more than about
 an inch or two of play at the handle end is too loose for safety.
 I bought a 3-foot length of zinc-plated 1/2-inch diameter steel
 rod from Home Depot for about $3, which conveniently cuts into
 two halves of just the right length (the store might even cut
 it for you if you ask). A steel supplier selling at commodity
 prices might charge about 50 cents or so for such a piece that
 weighs about 2 lbs. Drill rod would work if used in the annealed
 condition in which it is originally sold, but the added expense
 provides no benefit and the brittleness (if it had been hardened
 and not annealed) would worry me a bit. Rebar, threaded rod,
 screwdrivers, etc., are absolutely foolish as they will not
 fit the socket snugly. Aluminum rod is definitely too weak,
 and will bend under the torque that must be applied. Longer
 rods would make for more leverage but unwieldly swing; shorter
 rods make for uncontrollable swing. As we'll calculate below,
 the 18-inch standard tool length is an appropriate compromise.
 Note that you do not need 18 inches of ceiling clearance above
 the torsion shaft to use an 18-inch rod, since you do not need
 to swing the rods above horizontal when winding. 

<p> Clamping the rod stock in the vise and cutting it into two 18-inch
 winding tools is a quick job with a sharp hacksaw blade. 

<p> I filed the ends of the rod to remove burrs and square the tip.
 You don't want a sharp edge cutting your hand at a critical
 moment. 

<p> The finished tools each have one end shear-cut from the factory,
 and one end that I saw-cut and filed. These are the two saw-cut
 ends. 

<p> Here are the winding rods inserted in the winding cone of the
 unbroken old spring, posed just for a picture. Note that I have
 carefully placed a sturdy, steady ladder just clear of the swing
 of the rods, such that when I am standing on the lower rungs
 to reach the rods, that my head and body are clear of the "kill
 zone" around the spring and cone. You must have a trustworthy
 platform to stand on, because a slip or shake of the ladder
 while you are winding can cause you to lose your socketed attachment
 to the cone, letting loose the spring. I would not trust an
 ordinary household step ladder for this purpose. 

<p> One might stack lumber or arrange some other low platform for
 a steady footing, instead of the ladder. The aluminum ladder
 shown here is the splendid 16-foot Krause Multimatic, which
 carries a Type 1A Industrial rating (300 pound working load);
 I highly recommend it. However, product liability apparently
 forced this company into bankruptcy in September 2000 and the
 company ceased operations in June 2001; see http://www.krauseladders.com
 (this Web site went dead sometime in mid-2002). The world is
 a dangerous place. 

<p> This picture shows the upper rod pointing at an upward angle,
 even though you don't need to wind it that high. Winding is
 accomplished by swinging the rod from pointing down to pointing
 horizontal. 

<h> Calculating the Forces We Will Be Handling 

<p> Does winding these springs require an herculean effort from
 a muscular pair of arms? Does it start out easy, but in the
 end exhaust and trap you where you have no strength to either
 finish or back off? Let us apply a little engineering discipline
 to such questions. 

<p> "Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causus" (Virgil, Georgics).
 Translation: Happy is he who knows the cause of things. 

<p> To estimate the maximum physical force required to wind these
 springs, consider that they are balancing the weight of the
 door with a torque applied to a lift drum on each end of the
 torsion shaft. The lift drums have a 2-inch radius, which is
 the standard residential size, and corresponds conveniently
 to about a 1-foot circumference. If we pessimistically assume
 the 10-by-7-foot door has a weight of 350 pounds, this implies
 a torque of 350 pounds on a 2-inch radius, that is, 700 inch-pounds,
 or 58 foot-pounds. Each of the two springs should be exerting
 slightly less than half of the balancing torque, or 29 foot-pounds.
 Compare this to, say, the bolts in an automobile, which are
 typically torqued to values of about 50 foot-pounds, or tire
 lug nuts, which may be torqued to well over 100 foot-pounds.
 

<p> Since we're using an 18-inch (1.5 feet) winding lever to wind
 each spring up to 29 foot-pounds, we must apply a maximum tangential
 force to the end of the winding lever of about 20 pounds. Later
 we'll see that the actual weight of this rather dense door is
 238 pounds, implying a maximum tangential force on the winding
 levers of only about 13 pounds!

<p> Now 13 pounds of force must be respected when backed by many
 hundreds of foot-pounds of stored energy, waiting to be released.
 Holding this torque is equivalent to stalling a 3 horsepower
 DC motor. But holding and turning these handles does not require
 extraordinary human strength. Note that this maximum tangential
 force depends only on the weight of the door, and the radius
 of the drums, and is divided by the number of springs (some
 designs have only one longer spring, as mine did originally,
 instead of two shorter ones). Higher or lower lift distances
 imply more or less turns to wind the spring (and thus a different
 spring geometry), but not more force on each turn. 

<p> With the rods and other tools at hand, I am ready to begin.
 The first task is to remove the broken spring and its unbroken
 mate from the torsion shaft. To remove and disassemble the shaft
 and lift drums, the torsion on the unbroken spring must first
 be released. I used a ratcheting box-end wrench to loosen the
 set-screws while pushing the rod against the force I knew would
 be released when the screws let go. Later I switched to an open-end
 wrench for the set-screws, since some of the square screw heads
 were too rough to fit in the box-end wrench. 

<p> It is prudent to be prepared for torque from either orientation
 when loosening the set-screws. This protects you from a miscalculation
 of the force orientation or from an attention lapse. 

<p> If it isn't marked already, you should run a chalk line (as
 described below for the new springs) down the length of the
 old spring before unwinding, so you know how many turns it took
 to unwind. This will give you a starting value for the number
 of turns in the new springs. 

<p> By each "turn" is meant a full revolution of the winding cone.
 Each full turn requires four quarter-turn manipulations of inserting
 and switching the winding rods. My door is a very common height
 of 7 feet, which with the 4-inch drums requires about 7-1/4
 or 7-1/2 full turns on the springs. 

<p> This is the moment of truth for the beginner, as you will be
 holding the full force of a fully-wound torsion spring for the
 first time. It is time to adopt a calm, quiet, deliberate, careful
 attitude of concentration. Make sure that the telephone, a bystander,
 or other distraction is not going to startle you or make you
 lose your concentration. 

<p> Loosening or tightening the set-screws is the moment of most
 risk, since the end-wrench is a potential missile if you slip,
 and your hand is close to the cone. When the wrench is removed
 and only the rods are in place, it would seem that the worst
 that could happen is that the rod is flung out and the captive
 spring and cone rattle around, assuming you are keeping yourself
 clear of the rod's radial disk of rotation, and not leaning
 on the rod such as to fall into the apparatus were the rod to
 slip out of your grasp. The torsion shaft design has the virtue
 of capturing the mass of the spring and cones reliably on the
 shaft, preventing these parts from launching themselves as projectiles,
 even in an accident. 

<p> The prior clamping of the set-screws tends to have pressed a
 dimple into the hollow shaft and to have distorted the shaft's
 roundness into an eccentric shape. While releasing the set-screws,
 I was careful to loosen them enough to let the cone swing around
 any such distortions. I was also careful to observe any binding
 of the old cones on the eccentricity or burring on the shaft.
 The fit of the cone on the shaft is supposed to be loose enough
 to avoid binding, but if it were to occur one would have to
 be careful not to assume the spring was unwound when in fact
 the cone was just stuck on the shaft. If I had a stuck cone
 that I could not unwind with a little extra force, then I would
 have called in a technician to deal with it. In the worst case,
 I suppose the spring must be deliberately broken with some hazard,
 thus releasing it for a forceful disassembly, and the shaft
 and some other parts replaced. But this is an unlikely situation
 and in this case was not necessary. 

<p> The winding technique is simply to (un)wind as far as one rod
 will go, where it is pressed against the top of the door, or
 nearly so, by the unwinding torsion. You insert the other rod
 in the next socket, remove the first rod, and continue. At any
 point you can stop and rest by leaving the active rod pressed
 against the door, where it will be held by the unwinding force.
 I would make a quarter-turn increment that way, and let go for
 a moment to collect my attention for the next increment, almost
 in a quiet, meditative alertness. While you can go from one
 quarter-turn and rod-swap to the next continually without letting
 go, working fast against the steady tension seemed to invite
 a kind of shakiness in my arms that was a bit unsettling. It
 isn't that there is much physical exertion, it is more that
 the tension is unrelenting, like peering over a precipice. 

<p> While winding or unwinding, one must be mindful of the possibility
 that the spring could break during winding process itself. If
 that should happen while the spring is significantly torqued,
 hazardous forces on the winding bar will suddenly become unbalanced,
 and the bar will take an unexpected jump, possibly injuring
 your hand or anything else in its path. At the same time, the
 spring remnants, although captured on the torsion bar, will
 create a frightening racket that would give the bravest soul
 a start. So your winding technique should be firmly in control
 of the rods, and you should not be so delicately perched on
 a ladder such that a startle will result in a fall. 

<p> Depending on the design, you can know in advance how many turns
 are going to have to be unwound. Lifting a 7-foot door by winding
 a cable on a 4-inch diameter (about 1 foot circumference) drum
 requires about 7 turns, plus one extra turn to maintain cable
 tension at the top-of-travel. Maintaining tension at the top-of-travel
 is critical; without it the cable will jump off the drum, requiring
 a serious repair. 

<h> Why Can't You Install the Springs Unwound, with the Door in
 the Up Position? 

<p> You might be thinking: Aha! Why don't we lift the door, clamp
 it in place, and install the springs while they are thus safely
 unwound, rather than deal with all that accumulation of hazardous
 torque? The answer: At the top-of-travel, the unwound springs
 are not fully relaxed; they are still clamped to the torsion
 shaft with a significant stretch along the shaft axis, plus
 about a half-turn to keep the door snug at the top. This extra
 length amounts to the stacking of extra turns that accumulate
 from winding, also termed "spring growth" in the business. In
 my case this is about 7 turns of 0.2253 wire, or about 2 inches.
 Stretching the spring that much and clamping it with a twist
 is not feasible. 

<p> Even if one could somehow stretch and clamp the springs to the
 proper extra length, the process would still be more trouble,
 and there would be little or no reduction of risk. Lifting the
 full weight of the unsprung door by hand and clamping it in
 the raised position is dangerous in itself, and creates the
 same amount of stored energy as winding the springs, ready to
 slip out of your hands. Many doors won't travel far enough up
 the track to provide clearance to access the springs. You're
 also going to have to deal with winding stiff steel cables onto
 both lift drums at once without any resistance to maintain tension.
 Finally, even if you managed to complete the installation with
 the door raised, you then have to lower the massive door against
 an untested balancing torque. If you've made a mistake, then
 that massive door has nothing but your skeletal force applied
 through your hand grips to prevent it from falling down and
 crushing whatever is in the way (perhaps your feet?). 

<h> Other Bad Ideas for Saving Money or Time 

<p> If you're clever and equipped with a welder, you might think
 you could get away by welding a broken spring back together.
 At least two factors make this extremely risky. First, the weld
 itself may fail, either due to insufficient basic strength,
 or weakening of the nearby parts of the spring. Second, the
 fact that the spring was old and fatigued enough to break once,
 means that it is likely to break again soon at other location(s).
 

<p> If the spring is broken near a winding cone, you might think
 you can remove and discard the short broken piece of spring
 from the cone, clean up the end of the long remaining spring,
 and insert that end into the cone. This is another extrememly
 risky improvisation. The shortened spring is not going to have
 the correct weight-bearing characteristics for the door, so
 you will not be able to balance the door properly. The shortened
 spring will be proportionately overwound, resulting in extra
 stress that will increase the expectation of another fracture.
 And the aging and history of the original spring being broken
 greatly increases the likelihood of another fracture at other
 locations. 

<p> So discard your old springs and replace them with new. Don't
 try to repair or reuse them when they're broken. 

<p> Phew! The hazardous torsion is all removed from the old spring
 and now the disassembly can begin, with our old friend gravity
 as the only acceleration threatening personal safety. To remove
 and replace the relaxed springs required that I take down the
 torsion shaft, lift drums, and bearings. Doing that requires
 that the center bearing plate be unbolted from the wall, the
 drums removed from the shaft, and finally the shaft slid back
 and forth out of the end bearings to remove the whole assembly
 off the wall. Other situations could provide enough clearance
 on the sides to unbolt the end bearing plates and remove the
 drums, and then replace the springs without taking the shaft
 down. I am fortunate to have a lot of clearance in this garage
 to make the disassembly simpler. Tighter clearance to walls
 or ceiling would make disassembly a more difficult manipulation.
 

<p> Once the springs are relaxed and loose on the torsion shaft,
 the lift drums lose their tension on the lift cable, and the
 cable comes loose. The end of the cable is terminated by a press
 sleeve, which locks into a ramp on the drum. Different drum
 styles have a bolt or other method to fix the cable end to the
 drum. These steel cables are springy and won't stay in place
 without tension. If my pre-inspection had showed that these
 cables were worn or frayed, then I would have ordered proper
 replacements ahead of time from the spring distributor, since
 this is the opportunity to replace them. Standard hardware-store
 cable and fittings are not appropriate. 

<p> Once the shaft, springs, and center bearing plate come down
 and lay on the floor, the old springs should be easy to get
 off and new ones slid on and assembled. Two bolts hold the center
 cones to the center bearing plate. The bearing on the center
 plate can be oiled while it is exposed from having the springs
 off. At this point it is a relief to be working with inert parts
 while standing on the floor rather than energized parts while
 up on the ladder. You might think it would save a little time
 to replace the spring with the shaft left up on the wall, but
 I found it was easier and safer to lower the works down to the
 garage floor first. 

<p> As noted above, set-screw clamping may have distorted the cross-section
 of the shaft and made it difficult to slide off all the hardware.
 With the shaft on the floor, it may be possible to restore enough
 roundness to proceed, using compensating clamping force to the
 distorted area via a machinist's vise, an arbor press, a hydraulic
 shop press, etc., on the shaft body. Burrs and other slight
 distortions on the shaft can be filed off with a hand file or
 touched with an abrasive wheel on an angle grinder. At some
 point, the condition of the shaft may just be degraded enough
 that it ought to be replaced. 

<p> I mentioned earlier that this apparatus had at least one prior
 spring replacement, with a single longer spring having been
 replaced by two shorter springs. The clamping of the original
 spring had pressed dimples and an eccentric distortion into
 the hollow shaft. While this distortion was large enough to
 block the old cones from sliding across, I was able to remove
 the old hardware by just sliding them in the other direction.
 I did not have to bother trying to press out this distortion,
 since I could just work around it. 

<p> I was careful not to assume that the previous installation correctly
 oriented the right- and left-hand springs on the correct sides
 of the center bearing plate. They could have been installed
 backwards by an incompetent installer, resulting in them having
 been wound looser (larger diameter coil) instead of tighter
 (smaller diameter coil) than when in their relaxed state, and
 if so I would have corrected them on the new installation. The
 proper orientation of the springs applies their reaction torque
 from tighter winding such that it turns the drums to lift the
 door. Verifying this is a rather simple exercise in mechanical
 visualization, but does require some care to be certain of correctness.
 If you were to install the springs backwards, and then start
 to wind them in the wrong direction, then the torsion bar will
 start winding the drums backwards, and not holding against the
 vise pliers, which should be obvious to inspection. 

<p> At this point I weighed the unlifted door to confirm and fine-tune
 my calculations. This is not strictly necessary, but it makes
 the adjustments easier to perform, if you happen to have a scale
 with the requisite capacity. With some helpers, we first lifted
 the door a few inches and rested it on blocks of wood to provide
 clearance underneath. Then I slid a 400-pound-capacity freight
 scale under the center of the door, we lifted again to remove
 the blocks, and lowered the door gently onto the scale. This
 door weighed in at 238 pounds, which is very heavy for a single-car
 door. Since the outside of the door carries the 3/4-inch plywood
 paneling to match the house, and that plywood weighs about 2
 lbs/sq-ft, I estimate the door weight to be about 7 x 10 x 2
 = 140 lbs of paneling with the rest 238 - 175 = 98 lbs the interior
 panels and hardware. Knowing this total weight will help later
 in adjusting the torsion on the springs. After weighing, we
 removed the scale and blocks, leaving the door fully lowered
 again. Had I not had a high-capacity freight scale, I might
 have improvised a crude weighing device from levers and smaller
 weights of known mass, or a lever arm pressing a reduced proportion
 of the full weight onto a lower-capacity scale. Another factor
 to remember is that The weight of a wood door can vary with
 humidity. 

<p> The door and tracks at this stage of the repair are in a minimum-energy
 condition. This is a good opportunity to work on any hinges,
 bearings, rollers, or tracks that need tightening, repair, lubrication,
 or replacement. Again, these parts should be available from
 the spring source, and should be ordered based on a pre-inspection.
 Home-improvement stores carry some of these parts, but the type
 and quality may not be the best. 

<p> Next, the torsion shaft is reassembled with the new springs,
 the drums repositioned loosely on the shaft, this whole assembly
 slid back into the end bearings, and the drum set-screws tightened
 down. I tightened the set-screws about 1/2 or 3/4 of a turn
 after contact with the shaft, which provides a good grip, but
 does not distort the shaft. The drums can be set on their old
 positions, if they were correctly installed, which is snug up
 against the end bearings to remove any longitudinal play in
 the torsion shaft. Now the lift cable can be reattached to the
 drums, and a slight temporary torque applied to the shaft to
 keep the cable taut while the first spring is wound. This temporary
 torque is conveniently applied with a pair of locking pliers
 clamped on the shaft, positioned such that they hold the torque
 by pressing lightly against the wall above the door. I feel
 that any job that doesn't require a trick manipulation with
 either locking pliers or duct tape (or in the ultimate case,
 both!) is just too boring. My trusty pliers look a trifle rusty
 ever since I used them to clamp something on my outdoor TV antenna
 "temporarily" and left them out in the weather for, oh, several
 years. The white stuff on the drum is paint overspray from the
 original painting of the garage interior. 

<p> If you have paired springs, you can take a shortcut here instead
 of using locking pliers. Simply apply a slight torsion to the
 bar by clamping one of the springs with a half turn or so applied.
 This will hold the lift cables in slight tension while you wind
 the other spring. If you have a single spring design, you can't
 use this trick, and have to use the locking pliers. 

<p>Checking if the lift drums need resetting: The old position of
 the lift drums on the shaft may have slipped or otherwise lost
 the the proper position, requiring a reset of the drum position
 on the torsion shaft. Problems like uneven tension on the cables,
 or a tilted door, or a door that doesn't easily stay aligned
 with the tracks, can be due to an improper "set" of the drums
 on the shaft. So one shouldn't assume the old positions are
 correct. Setting the drums on a "fresh" part of the shaft will
 avoid the possibility of damaging the shaft from retightening
 in the same dimples. 

<p>Resetting the drums, if needed: If the drums were incorrectly
 set in their old positions, one must reset both drums in new
 positions on the shaft. This is complicated by the presence
 of old dimples in the torsion shaft from previous setting(s),
 which must be avoided lest they improperly influence the new
 setting of the drums. To begin this process of resetting the
 drums, the door must first be lowered and resting level on the
 floor, the spring(s) must be in the unwound condition with their
 set-screws loosened, and the lift cables wrapped around the
 drums. If for some reason the door does not rest level on the
 floor, such as the floor being uneven, then insert temporary
 shims between the door bottom and the floor to bring the door
 up to level. Loosen the set-screws on the drums, and turn the
 torsion shaft to avoid the old dimples from the set-screws in
 the old drum position. Tighten the set-screw on the left drum
 (that is, on your left as you face the door from in the garage),
 creating a new dimple, and apply tension to its cable with the
 locking-pliers technique, enough tension to keep the cable taut
 but not enough to start to move the door up. Attach and wind
 the cable on the opposite (right) drum by hand until the cable
 is similarly taut, and set the screw, remembering that tightening
 the screw will tend to add a bit of extra tension to the cable.
 Both drums should now be fixed on the torsion shaft, with the
 cables about equally taut (listen to the sound when you pluck
 them like a guitar string) and the door still level on the ground.
 Setting the left drum first, and the right drum second, will
 allow you to take up any slack in the cable introduced by the
 left drum rotating slightly with respect to the torsion shaft
 as you tighten the set screws. This alignment and balance of
 the cables, drums, and door is critical to smooth operation
 and proper closing. 

<p> Here is the center bearing plate with the new springs in place.
 While everything is loose, it is time to check the soundness
 of the mountings to the building frame and repair anything that
 was incorrectly installed or has deteriorated. 

<p> In the photo, you can see an extra lag screw on the bottom of
 the plate, reinforcing weak anchoring from the original two
 screws (hidden behind the springs). This extra screw was applied
 by a professional garage door technician on a previous repair
 visit. I have since replaced the backing with a sound plywood
 panel anchored into the concrete door header. Since these bolts
 clamp all the opposing torsion to the wall, the attachment must
 be sturdy. 

<p> The end bearings near the drums also get a few drops of oil.
 

<p> The last step before winding is to run a piece of chalk down
 the length of both relaxed springs. This lets you observe the
 number of turns as you wind. You don't want to be busy counting
 turns when you should be paying attention to the winding rods.
 

<p> The new springs are chalked and ready to wind. Time for one
 last check of fasteners and cables before applying torque. 

<p> Another moment of truth arrives as the winding-up of the springs
 begins. (I am just posing here with the camera held out in my
 left hand. Except for lifting the door onto the scale, this
 was a one-man job, including the photography.) You can also
 see I am wearing eye protection. It would be foolish to go bare
 and risk an eye injury. Somehow I came out looking like Elmer
 Fudd in this photo. And somebody oughta sweep out those cobwebs!
 

<p> Winding "up" starts out easy. It finishes at the proper number
 of turns, by which time you are pushing against the maximum
 torque. To be sure you're winding the right direction, all you
 have to remember is that proper winding makes the spring smaller
 in diameter and longer in length as it twists "in". On the standard
 door (most common), this means you push the winding bars up
 to wind up the spring, which is an easily remembered rule. This
 is very apparent and should be verified during the first few
 easy turns. You can also think about the correct winding direction
 in mechanical terms, namely which way the reaction of the spring
 will torque the shaft and drums, which in turn will lift the
 cable. This should all make perfect sense before you attempt
 the manipulations. 

<p> If you were to install the two springs backwards in the wrong
 sides of the center plate, the winding direction that acts to
 lift the door will be twisting the springs "out", which is backwards.
 

<p> By watching the chalk mark while winding, you can count the
 number of turns applied, and confirm the number later. My standard-size
 door (7 foot height) with 4-inch drums has a nominal wind of
 7-1/4 or 7-1/2 turns, which leaves 1/4 or 1/2 turn at the top-of-travel
 to keep the lift cables under tension. After 7 turns on the
 first spring, I clamped down the set-screws, weighed the door
 again, and found a lift of about 100 pounds in reduced weight.
 As expected, this wasn't quite half of the full 238 pounds,
 nor would it leave any torsion at the top-of-travel, so I added
 an 8th turn. The door now weighed 122 pounds on one spring,
 which was ideal. After winding the other spring, the door lifted
 easily, with only a few pounds apparent weight. This confirmed
 that the spring choice was properly matched to the door design.
 I engaged the electric opener trolley, and adjusted the opener
 forces down to a safer level suitable for the new, improved
 balance. The door was now ready for return to service. 

<p> As with the drums, I tightened the winding cone set-screws about
 1/2 or 3/4 of a turn after contact with the shaft, which provides
 a good grip, but does not distort the shaft. 

<p> One can overwind the springs slightly, up to about 8 turns on
 a standard residential door (that is, 1/2 or 3/4 extra turns),
 to compensate for undersized or fatigued springs, or increased
 door weight from painting or humidity, but this results in more
 stress on the springs and therefore decreased lifetime. If the
 door is too heavy for that slight tweak, then different springs
 are needed. 

<p> The usually recommended rule for a door being properly balanced
 is that it should lift "easily" through all its travel. The
 door may also remain stationary if let go somewhere around the
 middle of the travel, but a smoothly rolling door many not show
 this behavior (while a sticky track will!), so easy travel is
 the only reliable test for proper balance. A difficult door
 may be due to stiff bearings or rollers in the mechanism, tracks
 out of alignment, etc., not necessarily the torsion spring adjustment.
 

<p> Another trick for fine-tuning the balance of spring turns versus
 door weight is to adjust one side of a duplex pair slightly
 more or less than the other. That way you can have an exact
 weight balance while retaining some desirable torsion at the
 top. 

<p> Once the springs are torqued, the setscrews tightened, and the
 locking pliers and winding rods removed, do not play with turning
 the torsion bar using the winding rods. Doing so even momentarily
 can relieve the tension on the lift cables, which then easily
 slip off the drums. Replacing the cables on the drums can be
 difficult without repeating the whole spring winding procedure
 again, and the cables can be damaged if tension is applied while
 they are off the drums. 

<p> Total time for me to complete this work the first time was 3.5
 hours, including cutting the winding tools and the photography.
 I've completed subsequent repairs in less than an hour. Hundreds
 of people have written me to say they did it safely in a few
 hours after studying this essay. I'd like to hear how it goes
 for you. 

<l> DDM Garage Doors in Chicago offers an online catalog, including
 torsion spring sizes and prices, and "ships to all 50 states":
 http://garagedoor.org/. I have received numerous favorable (even
 glowing) customer evaluations. Their Web site added a thorough
 instructional essay on the repair process, much like this one,
 in 2005. 

<l> Dixie Door Inc. in Tennessee offers springs and hardware at
 their Web site www.dixiedoorinc2.com. Ordering is via an online
 shopping cart, except for springs which require a phone call.
 Prices may be higher than some others. I have received favorable
 customer evaluations. 

<l> Billings Overhead Door Co. (Billings, Montana) wrote me  to
 say they offer residential springs at $30 each plus UPS shipping.
 Phone: 800-666-5160, 406-248-7785. Email: bohd@vcn.com. I have
 received favorable customer evaluations. 

<l> Luke Stelmack at SuperiorDoorParts.com in New Jersey wrote me
  to say he is offering springs and parts to knowledgeable do-it-yourselfers.
 Springs must be ordered via a phone call, however. 

<l> Search eBay for items titled, "torsion (spring,springs) -kni*".
 This will typically bring up more than a few dealers who are
 now selling springs on eBay, as well as odd surplus items. 

<l> Although Service Spring Corp (http://www.sscorp.com/) "sells
 only to professional garage door dealers, distributors, and
 manufacturers", download their catalog for a detailed reference
 of parts and supplies. 

<l> Fehr Brothers Industries, Inc., of Saugerties, NY (http://fehr.com/)
 is a distributor of garage door hardware to the trade. A catalog
 with prices is available at http://www.fehrbros.com/gdsnp(web).pdf
 (42-page PDF file). Online ordering for the trade is provided
 at http://www.garagedoorsupplies.com/. 

<l> This installer-dealer has corresponded with me offering to sell
 springs to do-it-yourselfers: Robert Young, email: Crndg945@aol.com.
 

<l> AAA Remotes in Los Angeles has an online ordering page for residential
 torsion springs, with common sizes retail priced from $18 to
 $32 each plus $15 shipping, and pairs for $54 to $90 plus $25
 shipping. I have not received any customer evaluations. 

<l> I obtained my parts, as described on this page, from American
 Garage Door Supply Inc. (http://www.americandoorsupply.com/)
 They may have raised their small-order prices or imposed a minimum
 order since I ordered from them in 2002 at the prices in my
 essay above. The Web site offers a free catalog by PDF download
 or mail. Springs in 2005 were priced at $2.25/lb. 

<h> What Do the Professionals Charge for This? 

<p> A fair price for a professional repair, including the service
 call, parts, labor, and warranty, in most US locales is $100
 to $150. This was the case in the early 2000s. Times change.
 

<h> What Do the Professionals Overcharge for This? 

<p> I have received many tales by email of various swindles for
 upwards of $800 involving garage door repairs, or $1000s in
 needless door replacements. Beware of various tricks. Overcharging
 doesn't announce itself with a big "OVERCHARGE" stamped on the
 invoice. You have to know and recognize the angles. 

<p>The parts, parts, parts trick: You might be told you need new
 rollers, cables, drums, bearings, etc., when you don't, or at
 highly inflated prices. Good questions to ask when first calling
 for service include, "How do I know you will only charge me
 for the parts I actually need?", and "If you don't have all
 the parts I need, what will you charge me to come back?" 

<p>The open-ended work-order trick: You may be very surprised if
 you allow work to proceed without signing a work order with
 a specified price. Or, you may sign a work order, and think
 you're protected against open-ended wallet-reaching, only to
 find a much higher price due at the finish than you expected,
 because you signed a "parts as needed" order that got loaded
 up with a long list of parts (that likely were still in serviceable
 condition). You might have been quoted a price, but then get
 a bill for that price plus a lot more added for the "service
 call" and the "parts", and be told the quote was just for the
 labor. While this is the normal way of abusing your finances
 down at the hospital, you shouldn't agree to it for a garage
 door service call. These guys are not doctors. 

<p>The not-so-competitive advertising trick: How about this racket:
 We have all heard how you should get at least three bids for
 any home improvement jobs, right? In some areas the largest
 ads in the yellow pages are from a single business using various
 names and phone numbers, masquerading as independent competitors.
 When you call asking for prices, "they" all quote you very high
 numbers. You are tricked into thinking you have shopped around
 for the prevailing price. (The more modern version of this is
 multiple Web sites that all direct you to call the same person.)
 If you've ever had to call a plumber you may have unknowingly
 been a victim of a similar trick. 

<p>The optician's trick: The serviceman looks over your door with
 lots of scowling, chin-scratching, and tsk-tsking. You ask,
 "how much?" He replies with the fair price. If you don't flinch
 at that price, he says, "for the parts", while quoting a large
 additional cost for the labor. If you still don't flinch, he
 adds, "each," while pointing back and forth to your pair of
 springs. (I hope none of you service people are reading this!)
 I call this the "optician's trick" after the old vaudeville
 joke about lenses, frames, and left/right. 

<p>The lucky-for-you-I-found-another-problem trick: Another trick
 is to suggest your automatic opener was damaged (or "compromised")
 by the additional load or shock presented by the failure of
 the spring(s). The plastic worm gear used in the most common
 openers (see above) wears normally over the years and tends
 to leave a lot of debris inside the opener housing. Removing
 the opener cover reveals a lot of plastic shavings that may
 be cited as "evidence" you need a new opener, when the gears
 are actually still serviceable. Nevertheless, you may have indeed
 worn out the gear if you repeatedly cycled the door with the
 opener despite having broken springs, which is possible if you
 have a very lightweight door. 

<p>The classic telephone bait-and-switch: This time-honored swindle,
 also called "false advertising", can show up in the garage door
 business. Here's how this scam works: When you call and say
 you have a broken spring, and ask for a repair price, you are
 told over the phone that the price is X dollars, which typically
 might seem a little better than the competition. When the repairman
 shows up, after looking at your broken door, he will casually
 and matter-of-factly tell you it will cost 2X. If they told
 you over the phone that it would cost X, well, that was only
 for one spring, and he must (he must, mind you) install not
 just one, but two. He will act surprised if you object, as if
 you should have known that from what you were told over the
 phone. If you expected to really pay just X, it was your fault
 for misunderstanding because you don't know anything about how
 garage doors should be repaired. (You will feel intimidated
 at this, since you honestly don't know anything, else why would
 you have called a repairman? Intimidation is a powerful tool
 against customer resistance.) If your door used only one spring
 to start with, he will insist on converting yours to two, telling
 you it is safer the next time a spring breaks. If you originally
 had two springs, he will tell you that he must replace both
 springs, and you must therefore pay double what was quoted.
 While it is true that converting or replacing both springs is
 a good idea, the bait-and-switch pricing is not. The "bait"
 is the low price quoted to you over the phone, which they never
 intended to honor, and the "switch" is switching the price to
 something higher on a pretense. This method of selling is literally
 criminal (for example, see Florida Statutes 817.44, all states
 have similar laws), but a service business can usually avoid
 detection or prosecution because there are no printed advertisements
 or other tangible evidence, just one-on-one phone calls. If
 you find yourself in the middle of this trap, then the proper
 response is to dismiss the repairman without paying a nickel.
 Don't expect that you will be able to negotiate a fair price
 with someone who is using criminal business methods. Certainly
 don't expect that he will accept a lower price because you accuse
 him of false advertising. If you absolutely cannot wait for
 another service call, then you'll have to accept the fraud,
 in which case you should do so quietly. People that use these
 methods typically have ways to mentally justify their behavior
 to themselves as a reasonable business practice, and won't react
 well to your suggesting otherwise, even though they are in fact
 small-time criminals, not shrewd businessmen. 

<p>The special-price don't-tell-my-boss trick: In this scheme, after
 the technician has worked on your door for a bit, he will grimly
 notify you that he has discovered an additional repair needed,
 not just the spring(s). He will offer to do the work at a "special
 price" if you agree not to tell his boss. This air of conspiracy
 to get a bargain distracts and disarms you from critically thinking
 whether you really needed the repair in the first place (likely
 you don't), and whether the price is really a bargain (likely
 it isn't). 

<p> Before I give any more examples of many deceptive practices
 in this business, let me say two things. 

<p> First, I don't know exactly how prevalent these practices are,
 I just know that they are not uncommon. I'm sure it varies from
 place to place and time to time. Don't feel that you'll necessarily
 get taken, and have a chip on your shoulder when you call someone
 for service. 

<p> Second, there are a lot of honest people in this business who
 will give you good value for your money. While it can be hard
 to distinguish the honest ones from the opportunists and the
 outright crooks, being aware of the tricks is the best way to
 make such a choice from limited information. 

<p>The home-warranty trap: I cannot adequately express how worthless
 home "warranties" are in general. When it comes to garage doors,
 if you bought a home warranty thinking that it would fix your
 broken springs or other major garage door problem, then you
 are in for a costly disappointment. 

<p>The "safety issue" trick: Another tip-off is the use of language
 like "safety issue". This is meant to trump any objections you
 might have to a costly repair bill. Don't be manipulated by
 the suggestion that you are risking disaster if you don't buy
 something expensive. Even if you think the risk is genuine,
 get another estimate, and tell the second repairman you are
 skeptical; every technician loves to prove the competition made
 a mistake. 

<p>The "liability" angle: The flip side of "safety issue" is "liability".
 This is not used to directly sell you something; it is used
 to demean the cheaper alternative and prod you into buying a
 more expensive (and profitable) option. For example, you may
 be pressured into buying a whole new door, when you just need
 a new spring, by the salesman telling you he can't just replace
 the spring due to "liability" issues. Since product liability
 is a big burden on the garage door industry, and so many old
 doors (and especially automatic openers) are dangerous, this
 may be a genuine reason to accept a higher price. 

<p>The disaster-is-nigh technique: As he inspects your door, the
 serviceman grimly calls your attention to "cracks" in your garage
 door. These appear very faintly in the middle of the door where
 the panels bow under their own weight when the door is up. This
 is normal, but the type of thing you wouldn't casually observe
 yourself. This surprising revelation disarms you, and you may
 find yourself strangely susceptible to the pitch for an entire
 new door. 

<p>Not-quite-honest advertising: Yellow-pages advertising is the
 most handy source of information when you urgently need a door
 repair, but it is noisy and deceptive, especially when it comes
 clueless-consumer items like garage door repairs. I've prepared
 following table to guide you through the exegesis: 

<p>Understanding Yellow-Pages Advertising

<p>The Advertising

<p>The Meaning

<p>Full-page ad.
Family owned.
No physical address listed.

<p>One man, one truck, works out of home.

<p>More than one or two brand names or logos displayed

<p>No affiliation, but we can get import parts.

<p>Call us, we might feel like working late if you take the bait
 and pay the rate.

<p>Senior citizen discount, AAA discount, discount for any trivial
 affiliation you might have.

<p>Starting prices adjusted accordingly.

<p>Low prices!

<p>You have no idea what a low price is.

<p>Paid certification fee to a business in the business of collecting
 certification fees.

<p>Picture of broken spring.

<p>That's what I have! How did you know!? I'm calling you!

<p>Factory authorized.

<p>Does not apply to service call. You'll forget about it in a year
 or two, anyway

<p>Free estimates.

<p>Wonder why nobody just publishes a price schedule?

<p>Photos of clean-cut men (or cartoon figures) in crisp uniforms
 and new trucks in front of palatial homes.

<p>Did you want your door fixed, or to look at a stock-photo model?

<p> You might genuinely need some extra parts when you thought you
 simply needed a broken spring replaced, and a good serviceman
 will perform a simple inspection to identify such parts. Nor
 is it unreasonable for a business to charge separately for a
 service call versus repair work actually performed. But the
 best protection for you as a buyer, being somewhat at the mercy
 of whomever you decide to bring on site, is to understand what
 is being done, and ask intelligently for a clear explanation
 or demonstration of why extra parts are required. 

<p> Insist on having any old parts returned to you, and have that
 noted on the written order before work begins. An honest and
 competent technician will not object to this. The evidence will
 establish whether you really needed the parts or not, and you
 can consult another opinion if you have any doubts. This tends
 to deter the parts-upsell scam, and protects you even if you
 know nothing about what you're buying while under the pressure
 of making a costly decision. If the old parts mysteriously "disappear",
 then you have reason to be suspicious. 

<p>The deluxe-model upsell trick: Don't you want the best? Don't
 you want to protect your family? Galvanized springs may be offered
 to you at extra expense as "longer lasting". Although bare springs
 (also called "oil tempered") can develop a light film of rust,
 the eventual failure is due to fatigue and not corrosion. The
 use of coated springs (whether galvanized, painted, powder-coated,
 or surface-converted) is mostly about appearance: the customer
 likes his new door to look shiny, and the customer doesn't like
 repair parts that show superficial rust from storage. 

<p> Paying for an "extended warranty" is a poor gamble. 

<p> A knowledgeable installer with good inventory can offer you
 upgraded spring lifetimes by using longer, heavier springs than
 were originally installed. For example, you may be offered more
 expensive springs with expected lifetimes of 15, 25, or even
 100 thousand cycles, instead of the standard 10 thousand. The
 difference in labor to substitute this upgrade is nil. Since
 the dealer's cost of springs is proportional to weight, and
 typically a small part of the job price anyway, the dealer's
 cost for this upgrade is slight. This would seem to be a excellent
 option to offer every customer, and if correctly calculated
 and reasonably priced, one that you should take as cost-effective.
 Yet you may not be offered such an upgrade, if the installer
 is not adept at making the rather simple calculations, or if
 the optional springs are not on his truck, or if you're not
 around to be asked, or if the installer just doesn't like selling
 or taking time to discuss such details. 

<p> I'm not sure why most doors are installed with 10-thousand cycle
 springs instead of 25- or 50-thousand, since the difference
 in cost is minimal. I suspect most people do not want to pay
 today for extra years of service far in the future. And cynically
 speaking, the repair biz as a whole is more profitable when
 the cheapest parts are used. 

<h> Other Helpful Links 

<p> Clopay, a garage door manufacturer, provides online installation
 manuals for their products. For example, their "Wood Residential
 Garage Door Instructions", "Steel Residential Garage Door Instructions",
 and "Standard Torsion Spring Assembly Instructions" (PDF files)
 include excellent mechanical diagrams and brief instructions
 for winding torsion springs on their doors. Of course, this
 is specific to their product designs, which may or may not match
 what you have. The full list of manuals is at http://www.clopaydoor.com/installman.asp.
 Note that some of their products involve the "EZ-Set assembly
 option" mechanisms that use a geared housing for winding (instead
 of standard winding cones) and non-standard geometry for the
 drums. Clopay should get an award for at least acknowledging
 in their instructions that you might be able to install your
 own new door (although they insist you must not take out an
 old one if it has torsion springs). 

<p> See the Sectional Overhead Garage Door catalog (PDF file) from
 the Prime-Line replacement hardware company. Their brochure
 Sectional Garage Door Torsion Spring Installation Instructions
 (PDF file, part number GD-12280) is brief but informative. But
 beware that their "Do-It-Yourself Preventative Maintenance Guide"
 brochure for "sectional garage doors" (part number GD-12209)
 is a haphazard description that confuses extension versus torsion
 spring apparatus.  Apparently you can only obtain their torsion
 springs as special order items through mom-and-pop type hardware
 stores like Ace and True Value, and not the big-box Home Depot
 and Lowes. 

<p> Two of the spring references specifically for the garage-door
 industry are the APCO Spring Manual by Bill Eichenberger, and
 the Torsion Spring Rate Book by Clarence Veigel; these give
 tables of spring sizes and torque constants. Spring engineering
 principles in general are described in the Handbook of Spring
 Design published by the Spring Manufacturer's Institute; the
 formulas allow you to calculate torque constants knowing only
 the geometry and the Young's modulus of the material. You can
 also find some brief spring information in standard references
 like Machinery's Handbook and Marks' Standard Handbook for Mechanical
 Engineers. 

<h> Calculating Spring Properties 

<p>Caution: Advanced material follows.
This section is only for
 the
mathematically-inclined
and
engineering-minded!

<p> Given the material property and design geometry of a torsion
 spring, we can use engineering principles to calculate the spring's
 mechanical properties using the following formulas (after Wahl,
 A.M., Mechanical Springs, 2nd Edition, 1963; Machinery's Handbook,
 26th edition): 

<p>Property

<p>Formula or Constant

<p>Mean coil diameter (inches)

<p>Recommended stress limit
(after Wahl correction)

<p>S * Kw

<p>&lt; = 242 Kpsi

<p>(10,000 cycle life)

<p> (The Wahl correction factor accounts for additional stress in
 the material due to shear forces, although these forces do not
 contribute to the spring's torque. These shear forces become
 significant in designs using a low spring index, which is to
 say, a relatively thick wire for the coil diameter. The correction
 factor is applied to scale up the stress S to better predict
 the fatigue lifetime of the spring.) 

<p> (The constant 10.8 is an heuristically adjusted value which
 gives better practical results than the theoretically correct
 32/pi ~= 10.18.) 

<p>Excel spreadsheets: Several readers of this page have contributed
 Excel spreadsheets they wrote to calculate torsion spring properties
 based on the formulas above. Download Jay Hahn's spreadsheet.
 Download Gary Schrock's spreadsheet. 

<p> Note that there is nothing special about torsion springs used
 for garage doors; the formulas and spreadsheets apply generally
 to any torsion spring. 

<p>Example 1:: Let's plug some numbers into the formulas above,
 using as an example the pair of replacement springs I described
 above. 

<p>Spring rate and torque: In my spring replacement above, the wire
 size was d = 0.2253 inches, and the ID was 2 inches, giving
 a mean diameter D = 2.2253 inches. The number of coils is L/d
 = 24 inches / 0.2253 = 107, less about 5 dead coils on the winding
 cones, or 102 active coils. Thus the spring rate is K = (28.5*10^6
 * (0.2253)^4) / (10.8 * 102 * 2.2253) = 29.6 in-lb/turn (IPPT).
 Winding 7.5 turns * 29.6 in-lb/turn yields a torque of 222 in-lbs
 per spring. 

<p>Lift: The 4-inch lift drums have a 2-inch radius, so the tangential
 lift of one spring is 222/2 = 111 lbs. There are two such springs,
 so the total lift is twice that, or 222 lbs. This is in excellent
 agreement with my weighing of the door at 238 lbs. 

<p>Stress and lifetime: Calculating the maximal stress in the wire
 is useful for estimating the lifetime. Using the formula above,
 the bending stress S in the spring wire is 10.18*222/0.2253^3
 = 197 Kpsi. The spring index C is D/d = 2.23 / 0.225 = 9.88.
 The Wahl correction factor is Kw = (4C-1)/(4C-4) + 0.615/C =
 1.15. The Wahl-corrected stress is Kw * S = 1.15 * 197 Kpsi
 = 226 Kpsi. This predicts between a 10,000 and 25,000-cycle
 lifetime. Note that while this stress is proportional to the
 torque being applied, it is also in proportion to the inverse
 third-power of the wire size. Thus slightly heavier wire sizes
 (and suitably adjusted D and/or L) radically improve the expected
 cycle lifetime of the spring. 

<p>Weight and cost: The 24-inch-long spring has a calculated weight
 of 8.4 lbs, not counting the winding cones. At less than $1/lb
 wholesale, and $3/lb retail for fabricated steel products, this
 spring should sell for about $8 to $25 (2005 prices) each, depending
 on the market and source. Since a pair is required, the expected
 cost for a pair is $16 to $50. 

<p>Example 2:: As another example, let us analyze the 25-year-old
 original spring that is still intact on the least-used of my
 three garage doors. This is a single spring instead of a duplex
 pair such as has since replaced the originals on the other doors.
 

<p>Measurements: With the door in the down position, I measure a
 wire size of 0.277 inches, outside diameter of 2.0 inches, and
 overall length of 41.5 inches. Relaxing the spring shortens
 the length by about 7.5 coils of wire, so to estimate the relaxed
 length, we deduct the wire diamter of 0.277 inches times 7.5
 from the 41.5 inch wound length, yielding an estimated relaxed
 length of 39.4 inches. The mean coil diameter is 2.0 - 0.277,
 or 1.72 inches. Perhaps this was actually a 40-inch-long spring
 with a 1.5 ID, 1.75 mean diameter, and 2.0 OD, but let's continue
 on calculating with the actually observed sizes. The number
 of coils in the relaxed spring is the relaxed length of 39.4
 inches divided by the wire size of 0.277 inches, or about 142
 coils. Deducting about 5 dead coils at the ends yields 137 active
 coils. 

<p>Spring rate, torque, and lift: The spring rate K for these measurements
 is 28.5*10^6 * (0.277)^4 / (10.8 * 137 * 1.72) = 65.9 IPPT.
 Applying 7.5 turns on this rate will yield a torque of 7.5 *
 65.9 = 494 in-lb, which on the 4-inch drums (2-inch radius)
 yields a lift of (494 in*lbs)/(2 in) = 247 lbs. Again we find
 good agreement with the approximate door weight of 238 lbs.
 

<p>Stress and liftime: Spring index C = D/d = 6.2. Wahl correction
 factor Kw = (4C-1)/(4C-4) + 0.615/C = 1.24. Stress S = 10.18*494/(0.277^3)
 = 236 Kpsi. Wahl-corrected stress = Kw * S = 293 Kpsi. This
 spring is stressed rather severely, yielding an expected lifetime
 of less than 10,000 cycles. 

<p>Weight and cost: The 40-inch-long spring has a calculated weight
 of 13.3 lbs. This single spring should retail for about $40.
 This is bit cheaper than the example of paired springs above
 at $50, but the lifetime is shorter. 

<p>Trading diameter for length: Observe that in the spring rate
 formula in the table above, factors D (diameter of coils) and
 N (number of coils) appear together in the denominator of the
 spring rate formula. Algebraically, given equal wire sizes,
 this means that the product of the coil diameter and overall
 length produces the spring torque, not the diameter or length
 alone. Physically, this means that you can trade off torsion
 spring coil diameter versus overall length in inverse proportions
 to maintain the same torque rate. Trade-off example: A spring
 with 2-inch diameter coils that is 36 inches long equals a 1.5-inch
 diameter spring that is 48 inches long, because the product
 in both cases is 72 (inches squared). This assumes that wire
 size is equal in the trade-off, and that you have not counted
 dead coils in the length. Service technicians use this principle
 to make quick substitutions for what's on their truck versus
 what you need. But if you understand this, you're ahead of many
 technicians who don't know this trick. Maybe now you can educate
 the next one you hire. 

<p>Cycle lifetime unchanged by diameter-versus-length tradeoffs:
 Since the material stress (and thus cycle lifetime) for equal
 torques varies only with d, and not D or N, trading coil diameter
 (D) for spring length (N) in this fashion has no effect on cycle
 lifetime. Long and skinny, versus shorter and fatter, they'll
 wear the same if they have the same wire size and diameter-length
 product. The game of life is all about wire size when it comes
 to springs (see below). 

<p>Spring index lower limit:DASMA standard 102-2004 provides a lower
 limit of 6 for the spring index, which is symbol C in our formulas
 above (section 9.3). Other interesting items in this standard
 include an upper limit for how much the door sags when raised
 (no more than 1/120 of its width, section 9.2.1), that each
 of the two bottom brackets should sustain twice the door assembly's
 weight (section 9.2.2) for a total safety factor of about 4,
 and that the lift cables should provide a safety factor of 5.
 

<p>Trading wire size for length, diameter, or cycle life: Now we
 are really going to save you some money, if you just recall
 your high school algebra class (and I don't mean that cute cheerleader
 who sat next to you). If you further understand the role of
 the 4th power of the spring wire size (letter d in the formulas
 above) in the numerator of the spring rate formula, and how
 to increase or decrease d to compensate for changes in length,
 diameter, and cycle life, then you're qualified for elite spring
 calculations. Matching springs is a matter of equating the 4th
 power of the proportion in wire size change to the proportion
 of change in the diameter or length or the product of both diameter
 and length. However, it is usually best to only increase wire
 size when substituting a spring, since this does not derate
 the cycle life. If you observe that the formula for bending
 stress is proportionate to the inverse 3rd power of the diameter,
 then physically a proportionate increase in wire size will result
 in a dramatic increase in cycle life of the 3rd power of that
 proportion. Trade-off example: Yawn with me while we ponder
 my original spring once more. Let's say I was in a fit of engineering
 mania, and wanted to replace my spring having a 0.2253 inch
 diameter wire (d = 0.2253) with a 0.262 wire version (d = 0.262).
 How much longer is the spring with equal torque rate, assuming
 we use the same coil diameter? The proportion of this change
 is 0.262/0.2253 = 1.163, and the 4th power of that is 1.83.
 This means the length must increase by a factor of 1.83 (again,
 not counting dead coils). Recalling that the length in Example
 1 was 102 non-dead coils, the heavier wire spring must be about
 1.83*102 = 187 coils, which when adding 5 dead coils and multiplying
 by the wire size to get the overall length, is (187+5)*0.262
 = 50 inches, versus 24 inches in the original. So using this
 heavier wire more than doubles the length (and thus the mass
 and thus the cost). While the cost about doubles, the stress
 goes down by the inverse 3rd power of the wire size proportion,
 or 1/(1.163**3) = 0.64. Sress is favorably, non-linearly related
 to cycle lifetime (halving the stress more than doubles the
 lifetime), so this decreased stress should more than double
 the expected lifetime of the spring. While the up-front cost
 is more, the true cost of an amortized lifetime is much less.
 In short, per cycle it is cheaper. Ah, the wonders of engineering
 calculations! Conclusion: Observe that the stress formula (and
 thus the cycle lifetime) depends only on wire diameter (d) for
 equal torques. Thus the only way to improve cycle lifetime is
 to use heavier wire. For equal torques, heavier wire size, due
 to the exponents in the formulas, increases cycle lifetime much
 faster than it increases mass (and thus cost), physically speaking.
 

<p>Door repair business advice (warning to consumers, you are not
 allowed to know this): Thinner wire is excellent for shortening
 spring lifetimes, lightening your inventory on a service truck,
 and getting paid for frequent service calls. This is why your
 industry chooses to set "standard" springs to have thin wire
 and despicably short lifetimes. If you want to maximize profits
 and fleece your customers, install springs that predictably
 break in about 7 years on a door that should last decades, even
 though it is just as easy for you to install slightly more expensive
 springs that should last the life of the door. Remember that
 the customer wanted the cheapest price, so you need not feel
 any guilt about this low-balling. 

<p>Example 3:: By way of comparison, here are some sample values
 from a spring rate book used by garage door installers; put
 the same parameters into the formulas above to see how the theoretical
 and practical values of the rate in IPPT roughly agree. The
 table seems to be about 10 percent lower in IPPT and 10 percent
 higher in weight than the formulas predict; I'm not sure why
 this is. 

<p> Wire diameter d = 0.207"
 Spring diameter ID = 2.00"
 Maximum
 (recommended) inch-lbs of torque (MIP): 212 in-lb
 Weight per
 lineal inch: 0.319 lbs
 Chart calculated based on 5 unused coils
 

<p>Spring Length L (inches)

<p>Rate K (IPPT)

<p> I've provided this information for free, in hopes it will help
 you either fix your door yourself, or find a competent professional
 service to do it for you at a reasonable price. If you've been
 helped by this Web page, as many have, all I would ask is that
 you create a link to this page (http://www.truetex.com/garage.htm)
 from any pages you maintain. You will thereby help others searching
 for complete and reliable information on this type of repair
 to find it with a Web search. 

<p> Please address any publication or reprint permission requests
 to me via email at the address below. 

<p> Have a comment or question (not answered above) on my garage
 door repair?
 Email me at:kinch@truetex.com
 Richard J. Kinch

 Back to Home page



