
URL: http://us.oneworld.net/article/view/112375/1
<h>Rattling the Gates: A Peace Corps Chronicle of HIV Life and AIDS
 Death in Hlatikulu, Swaziland

<p>Alyson Peel lives at an orphanage in Hlatikulu where she mentors
 25 young girls orphaned by HIV/AIDS. As a U.S. Peace Corps Volunteer
 focusing on HIV outreach, she brings individuals from surrounding
 villages for testing and counseling, sets up HIV education programs
 for students and teachers, and is helping to establish a rural
 clinic to monitor HIV-positive children and improve conditions
 at the local clinic where HIV-positive people receive antiretroviral
 (ARV) treatment. This journal chronicles one of her first weeks
 on the job.

<p>3/03/05

<p>
 The day we first met Mazaza, he was sitting on the ground outside
 his round stone, stick, and mud hut. Mandla lived in a tiny
 mud, stick, and stone hut perhaps 15 feet from Mazaza’s rondeval.
 

<p>
 When I sat down on the ground next to Mazaza, tears ran down
 his cheeks. He was hungry and he seemed broken in other ways
 less tangible. 

<p>
 A week later Mandla was dead. Simphiwe was disheartened. 

<p>
 We walked further down the dirt road to find the gogo with
 the two tiny children whose faces haunt me at night. 

<p>
 Ah, this is a sad story of an old woman whose leg has been
 broken for more than a year. I gather she had some treatment
 at one time, but it was ineffective. When we first encountered
 her, she was lying on a small bed in a dank, smoke-filled hut,
 her broken leg swollen and fluid-filled. Two tiny children were
 with her in the hut, one about three feet tall with huge liquid
 eyes standing naked in a small bucket of dirty water, trying
 to give himself a bath. His smaller brother hunched in the corner.
 They looked feral. 

<p>
 The gogo explained that her daughter, the mother of these small
 ones, dropped them off in July and took off to find something
 better for herself on the outskirts of Manzini, in an area known
 for its sex trade activity. The gogo can’t leave her bed and
 cooks for the tiny ones in a pot by the side of the bed, hence
 the smoke-filled room. She stopped eating some time ago because
 she can’t get out of the bed to go outside and relieve herself.
 She lifts her shirt to expose folds of flesh that indicate she
 was heavy at one time. She says she asks God to take her every
 day and is considering taking her own life. 

<p>
 If this woman dies, no one will know for days, or maybe weeks,
 and these tiny children, whose faces disrupt my sleep, will
 be climbing over her dead body trying to wake her, helpless
 about what to do next. 

<p>
 But today the gogo is feeling better and is actually sitting
 up on her bed. My slight relief is dampened by the coughs and
 labored breathing of the little ones, who have recently contracted
 the flu. 

<p>
 Before we left, I knelt and put my hand on each child’s chest,
 feeling their little hearts beating and wishing that some of
 my own health could somehow be transmitted through my skin and
 their threadbare shirts. 

<p>
 We continued the road, hoping to find Babe M’s place. We asked
 some small children we meet along the way. 

<p>La pha. Over there. 

<p>
 It pained us to see this child and I told the woman with me
 to have Babe M bring the child in for HIV testing. The next
 Monday, he was sitting in the testing room, holding this little
 one close to him on his lap. Actually, they were holding each
 other. 

<p>
 He told us to take the baby to the lab for HIV testing but
 that it was his professional opinion the child was suffering
 from congenital syphilis. He told us to come by the office at
 11, bypassing hours of waiting at the clinic. 

<p>
 It turned out the baby was negative for HIV and had been receiving
 treatment for two years for external symptoms–the sores and
 upper respiratory sequelae–nearly at the expense of his life.
 I saw Babe M with the baby three days later when he was registering
 one of his other children for primary school. 

<p>
 Babe M and baby M still cling to each other as if sharing a
 pact of grief at the loss of the mother. But today a renewed
 spirit and vigor is also shared between them. Babe M is grateful
 to us and sends us off with a bag of peanuts and a smile. 

<p>
 Simphiwe and I walked together the several miles back into
 town. I am happy to be in his company. I delight in his company.
 If there is a hero to this Swaziland story, it is in someone
 like Simphiwe. He is a 29-year-aold Swazi whose gentleness,
 equanimity, and grace under pressure leaves me in a constant
 state of awe. He is a volunteer with a local NGO overseeing
 HIV efforts here. For four years, for less than $20 a month,
 he gets up each day and goes out to make the world a better
 place. But his is a story for another day. 

<p>
 The day began with a rattle at the gate. 

<p>
 Babe M and I are too late for the hymn, which starts the morning
 intake, and take our places on one of the last benches available.
 After each person hands over their records–mangled pieces of
 paper documenting previous visits–they are sent to the consulting
 nurse. We inch along the benches for two hours before we reach
 the intake nurse. 

<p>
 People here are very sick and at the rate at which one makes
 one’s way to intake, it is possible to get a good long look
 at misery. Sometimes it vomits at your feet. 

<p>
 We are number 18, black, not to be confused with blue or red,
 signifying other consult rooms. I leave to get bananas and bread
 for father and son. When I get back, the lines have not moved.
 We have been here for three hours. At about 1 p.m., four hours
 from our arrival, the doctor will see us. The doctor is a woman,
 rare here, from the Congo. She takes the baby’s history, prescribes
 the medication, and we are off. The pharmacy, we learn, is closed
 until 2 p.m. I take my leave of the two, my main purpose served.
 After collecting his meds, Babe M will walk the several miles
 home with his son clinging to his back. 

<p>
 Today, the rattling at the gate is a sadder story. Lindie is
 eight months pregnant and has four children. The oldest, Linda,
 is a boy from a previous marriage and his father is now dead.
 Linda lives with his gogo because Lindie’s new husband did not
 want to support Linda- who is 12 years old and HIV-positive.
 

<p>
 Despite all of these symptoms, he was not tested for HIV until
 last month, and we are taking him in today to have his blood
 drawn for a CD4 count. 

<p>
 An estimated 40 percent Swaziland’s adults are HIV-positive.
 Most young women between the ages of 18 and 25 are either pregnant
 of nursing a small child. The majority of these women have not
 been tested. 

<p>
 In Swaziland, most of the attention is being placed on the
 adult population, many of whom will surely die. But very little
 attention is given to the staggering number of HIV babies currently
 being born who will begin to get sick. A recent study showed
 that, while about 30 percent of HIV babies will not survive
 their first year, roughly 40 percent will survive their 5th
 birthday. We will start to see these children in the primary
 schools in great numbers within a few years. We are already
 starting to see them now. 

<p>
 The nation’s schools are not prepared to either identify or
 support these kids. If you estimate that approximately 30 to
 50 percent of babies born to HIV mothers contract HIV, and that
 approximately half of all pregnant women are HIV-positive, you
 can figure that about 15 to 20 percent of all babies born in
 Swaziland this year will be HIV-positive. 

<p>
 On our way back to the hospital, a lovely, pregnant and distressed
 woman stops us. Lindie, who speaks some English, explains to
 me that this woman is in to get her husband’s CD4 results, and
 hopefully some medicine for her husband. He is too sick and
 weak to stand. I’m not sure what the women wants from me but
 I agree to go with her to the ARV clinic. The results of last
 week’s test have not come back and won’t be available for another
 week. If the count is less than 200 and you are symptomatic,
 a week can kill you here. She wants me to see her husband. She
 wipes an eye, tantamount to sobbing in a country that shows
 little grief, having had to bear so much of it. I walk her home
 down a narrow, rocky dirt road barely wide enough for a car
 for several miles. I wonder how she will make this trip at the
 end of her pregnancy. At the end of an overgrown footpath we
 reach the homestead–three small mud and stone huts and a mangy
 dog with an angry red eye. 

<p>
 Sikhumbuso, her husband, is lying strangely twisted on the
 bed. There is no muscle mass left on his body. He will die.
 She says he stopped talking two days ago but, oddly, he has
 a piece of cooked potato pressed against his mouth. Apparently
 he is able to eat a little, but the diarrhea keeps him from
 deriving any nutrients. After five months in Swaziland, I am
 still amazed at how little it takes to sustain life. That this
 man breathes at all is an enigma to me. If he has any awareness
 of our presence, he gives no sign. I suspect his mind is somewhere
 preparing for its final journey. 

<p>The author’s Hlatikulu Journal March 2005 continues with her
 March 12 entry in the summer issue of WorldView magazine, Vol
 18 No 2, which is a special HIV/AIDS edition. Previous to joining
 the Peace Corps, Alyson Peel worked in the United States with
 delinquent, troubled, and/or chemically dependent adolescents.
 This article began her month-long account of life as an HIV/AIDS
 volunteer in Swaziland.



