
URL: http://volokh.com/posts/1125069823.shtml
<p>The first quotation goes back to October 1982, when a Republican
 candidate for governor of New York named Lewis Lehrman complained
 about his party's national slogan during that year's midterm
 elections. Stay the course, insisted Lehrman, who eventually
 lost narrowly to Democrat Mario Cuomo, was a lousy theme in
 the face of a 10 percent national unemployment rate.

<p>The second quotation is of more recent, though still Republican,
 coinage. Last Sunday, Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska laid into
 the Bush administration's policy in Iraq. Hagel insisted that
 remaining in Iraq over an extended period -- staying the course
 -- "would bog us down, it would further destabilize the Middle
 East, it would give Iran more influence."

<p>The problem with Dionne's argument, of course, is that with respect
 to 1982, history has shown Reagan was right and Lehrman was
 wrong on the wisdom of the "stay the course" strategy, as the
 short-term pain of the severe 1982 recession created the economic
 conditions for a long-term boom. At the very least, Dionne seems
 to be mixing apples and oranges--Lehrman seems to be criticizing
 Reagan's rhetoric (the "slogan" of "stay the course") more than
 the policy, whereas Hagel is criticizing the substantive policy
 decision.

<p>This is not to say anything about whether "Stay the course" is
 the right or wrong policy in Iraq, it is simply to say that
 the substance of the Lehrman example seems to support exactly
 the opposite of the point Dionne intends.

<p>E.J. Dionne's a smart man who always seems to miss the point
 anyway. For a better critique of the "Stay the course" rhetoric,
 read Jonah Goldberg's piece on NRO today. Excerpt: 

<p>
There is an important lesson for President Bush in all this.
 The message of his recent speech to the Veterans of Foreign
 Wars was that we need to “stay the course.” That has been
 his talking point for a very long time. And, in fairness, if
 your policy is to stay the course, then saying “stay the course”
 has a certain irrefutable logic to it. But on any long journey,
 even if the course remains the same the terrain may change.
 

<p>
Nobody needs to stay the course when everything's going perfectly
 - some hardship is implied in the message, also the need to
 continue, knowing the overall stratgy is still correct.

<p>"Stay the course" is rhetoric. It tends to be effective for a
 while. Because failing to stay the course looks weak and vacillating.
 It was therefore ultimately effective for Reagan, because the
 economy turned around dramatically. However, after a time "stay
 the course" in the face of frustration looks not so much strong
 as stubborn. I suspect it is not a good long term trope for
 Bush, because I suspect that Iraq will not turn around so obviously
 and dramatically as did the Reagan economy. 

<p>
As policy, I doubt "stay the course" has much pull. The Administration
 is not staying the course because it's devoted to staying the
 course for its own sake. It began with the goal to remake Iraq
 and it still has that goal, so it's staying the course for external
 reasons.

<p>I too doubt that stay the course has much pull after a while,
 with the people in America. But if you ask Iraqis, I would be
 they are glad we aren't going to change course on them. If we
 did it would be a disaster. 

<p>
I am always struck by the Vietnam anti-war protest folks and
 how they want to overlook the fact that failing to stay the
 course had disastrous consequences for the people on the ground.
 The left always tries to prevent you from thinking about those
 consequences with their catchy slogans and lingo. The millions
 of dead SE Asians speaks loudly of the consequences of NOT staying
 the course. 

<p>
Expediency at home does not necessarily translate to Iraq proper,
 nor the catchy slogans of the leftists. Great care should be
 exercised when trying to make that leap of faith. Make the wrong
 move now, and millions of Iraqis may end up as fodder for the
 Isloamo-Fascists.

<p>It's pretty much a case of 'necessary but not sufficient'. If
 you have a policy and you don't 'stay the course' then you don't
 have a policy. But what policy you do have matters too; left-wing
 Democrats are doing a fine job of staying their course, for
 instance, but it can't be said they're profiting much.

<p>Looks like we are fighting a GSAVE and they are fighting a war.
 We use police or SWAT tactics and legal hearings (in Iraq now,
 apparently, per Michael Yon). They fight total war plus illegal
 war. 

<p>
I see conceptual asymmetry in their favor. How long before we
 have reporters like Yon (http://michaelyon.blogspot.com/) embedded
 with Iraqi units reporting heroic action by our Iraqis against
 insurgent Iraqis? If not in the next 6-12 months, are we backing
 a winner (comparable to the mujahedeen-types we backed against
 the Soviets in Afganistan)? Hopefully we are not backing the
 sort of weak, uncommitted, in-it-for-the-money client we backed
 in Vietnam. 

<p>
It still appears from writings by reporters with US troops in
 Iraq (Michael Yon comes to mind) that we cannot trust the Iraqis
 not to leak US operation plans to insurgents. Any idea when
 that might change? 

<p>
Bush needs to have some folks in his group that will sort out
 the facts and tell him if this police action will be better
 in end result than our efforts to support South Vietnam in its
 unsuccessful efforts against the Viet Cong and NVN. Then, it
 might be nice to get a bit more than slogans for public consumption.
 

<p>
Might want to also look at how much of the restrictions on US
 troop actions arise from the law of war versus rules of engagement
 concerns. Might ask why should our rules of engagement be asymmetrical
 with rules of engagement of the foe (so long as we are within
 the law of war). That did not happen in the US Civil War or
 WWII. Here, insurgents get to fight without rules of engagement,
 giving them a leg up. Are the restrictions similar to what we
 imposed in Vietnam, and will they tend to give us the same end
 result as in VN? If we are not prepared now to fight to the
 limits of what the law of war allows, doing everything legal
 to win, are we being fair to our troops? 

<p>
I supported the war from the start, and still do, but reports
 from the front (via Michael Yon) that are supposed to be encouraging
 (per Instapundit) look troubling to me. 

<p>There is no difference between then and now. In WWII the Nazis
 fought total war, the Japanese fought total war, both continued
 even after the Armastice. Ever hear of Kamakazies? Well the
 Germans had them as well, in fact the Germans even sent planes
 to crash into our bombers. The German Werewovles were every
 bit as viscous as today's terrorist in Iraq. In Vietnam little
 kids and parents clutching kids would come up to US troops and
 detonate. Not much about war has changed. 

<p>Chuck Hegel isn't exactly a poster child for the necessity of
 continuing in Iraq. And E. J. Dionne isn't exactly the one to
 succinctly articulate the policy either. Why should I respond
 to either expression of noise? 

<p>
If, as Dionne suggests, history repeats itself, his ignorance
 of history demonstrates a very short sense of time and his place
 in it. We have only just gotten in to Iraq. Our American experiments
 with confederation and constitution took considerable time to
 work out. 

<p>
Their instant gratification observations seem so very "now generation."
 As a decent yardstick, compare the depreciating tone of their
 remarks to those of George Washington as quoted by David McCullough:
 "Again and again, in letters to Congress and to his officers,
 and in his general orders, he had called for perseverance--for
 'perseverance and spirit,' for 'patience and perseverance,'
 for 'unremitting courage and perseverance.' ... Without Washington's
 leadership and unrelenting perseverance, the revolution almost
 certainly would have failed." 

<p>
Courage to persist seems to belong to those who appreciate the
 opportunity the coalition has offered to Iraq that is every
 bit as comparable to the gift 25,000 of our forefathers who
 passed away in the Revolutionary War gave to their children.

<p>
I agree that the Iraqi insurgents are waging total war plus
 - as bad as Japan or Germany. I am saying the US needs to get
 to a total effort, up to the limits ofthe law of war. That is
 what we (the US) did in WWII and the Civil War. Marines generally
 took no prisoners in fights with Japan, and Japan generally
 had the same approach with Marines. 

<p>
That is not what the US effort looks like in Iraq. See the Yon
 write up about taking insurgents to court, tackling runaway
 inurgents instead of shooting. We pull punches in Iraq, it seems,
 because it is not our war, in some sense. That is troubling.
 Sending insurgents and troops to court hearings in Iraq is not
 all out war of the sort we saw in 1861-65, or 1941-45. Not shooting
 when shooting is called for (or allowed) by the law of war is
 again troubling, where the other side uses unlimited violence.
 

<p>
"Because the insurgents are happy to murder civilians, and we're
 not?" The law of war is what it is. It does not allow targeting
 "civilians" who are civilians. But if insurgents are in civilian
 clothes and one has a gun and two run, shoot all three. See
 the Yon article. Once male adult "civilians" drive away from
 troops at 105 miles per hour and refuse to stop, shoot to kill.
 If we wait till they buy uniforms, we are going no where we
 want to be. If we are not in a position to fight total war,
 up to the limits of the law of war, because of fear of backlash
 in the US, maybe we need to promptly bring the US "war" effort
 to a dignified conclusion.

<p>[Important Note to Helpful Readers: If we have confusing typos
 and especially ugly formatting errors, such as an unclosed underline
 or bold tag, we'd love to hear from you about them -- but please
 e-mail the author about this, rather than leaving a comment.
 We often won't read the comments for a while after the post,
 and if there's a glaring formatting error, we'd see it quickly
 when we revisit the post, even without the comment; and in any
 event the comment likely isn't going to be that helpful to your
 fellow comment readers. So please e-mail us directly about glitches
 like this. Thanks!]

<p>Comment Policy: We'd like the posts to be civil, of course (no
 profanity, personal insults, and the like), but we're also hoping
 that people try to be as calm, reasoned, and substantive as
 possible. So please, also avoid rants, invective, substantial
 and repeated exaggeration, and radical departures from the topic
 of the thread. Sticking with substance -- and staying on-topic
 -- will make the comments more helpful to other readers, and
 more pleasant.

<p>As editors, we reserve the right to delete posts, and even to
 kick out posters, though we hope that both of these will be
 exceptional events. (We also reserve the right to be busy with
 other things, and therefore (1) not remove all the posts that
 might merit removal, and (2) ignore demands such as "You should
 remove A's posts, because they're just as bad as B's!")

<p>Here's a tip: Reread your post, and think of what people would
 think if you said this over dinner. If you think people would
 view you as a crank, a blowhard, or as someone who vastly overdoes
 it on the hyperbole, rewrite your post before hitting enter.

<p>And if you think this is the other people's fault -- you're one
 of the few who sees the world clearly, but fools wrongly view
 you as a crank, a blowhard, or as someone who overdoes it on
 the hyperbole -- then you should still rewrite your post before
 hitting enter. After all, if you're one of the few who sees
 the world clearly, then surely it's especially important that
 you frame your arguments in a way that is persuasive and as
 unalienating as possible, even to fools.

<p>Our goal is to provide an interesting and pleasant environment
 that can help inform readers. To do that, we'll occasionally
 have to exercise our editorial discretion. Think of this as
 an in-person discussion group, where having different voices
 is critical to a great conversation -- but where sometimes the
 leader has to deal with cranks who sour the conversation more
 than they enliven it.

<p>Naturally, there's always a risk that this discretion will be
 used erroneously, no matter how well-intentioned the editor.
 But discussion groups (especially on the Internet, but also
 off it) generally need an editor who'll occasionally make such
 judgments.

<p>And, remember, it's a big Internet. If you think we were mistaken
 in removing your post (or, in extreme cases, in removing you)
 -- or if you prefer a more free-for-all approach -- there are
 surely plenty of ways you can still get your views out.



