<h>February 07, 2005

<p>seeing

<p>i stood shivering outside a cvs in boston waiting for my friend. a homeless man walked up to me and asked if i was a bum. i guess that doesn't say much for my appearance. i was wearing a ratty old jacket. i had been outside in the rain all day. i was carrying plastic bags filled with free things from the concert we'd helped at. i told him i was not a bum, and asked if he was. he said yes, and so i asked if he liked it. i don't know why i asked, and i don't know why i was surprised when he said no and walked away. for some reason i like that memory. i like that a bum talked to me as if i was a bum. i wish i could know what he was going to say to me before he found out i was too good for him.

<p>when i'm at the hospital i pass a lot of cleaning ladies. i pass the same ladies because i spend my time there on the same hall on the 9th floor. i always smile and mumble a hello, but they rarely notice. they don't look up when i pass them. it bothers me that they won't notice me.

<p>i was eating lunch out with my grandparents, and there was a beautiful tiny old woman eating alone across from us. i watched her carefully cut up her food, and slowly stir her tea. she was so small in the booth. so all alone.

<p>there is a boy with down's syndrome at my church. he sings loudly with only a few of the right words, and all of the emphasis on the last word in each line. he plays ping pong with the other boys and hits the ball so hard it flies off the table. it makes him laugh hard. i watch him eat doughnuts alone in the corner. the more i watch him, the more i can't resist watching him.

<p>i was walking to the checkout line in walmart looking into faces as i passed them when i saw a woman who looked like death. we were across from the the pink valentine display when we passed each other. she was bald under her black hood. her face was pale and hollow. i've seen bald women, and i've seen sickly faces, but i've never seen death on the living. it was startling. it made me question for a second if her face had survived a severe burn accident. the death stuck out like a missing appendage. it didn't frighten or sadden me, it made me want to walk around the store with her.

<p>today i sat on the bleachers of the elementary school alternating between my book and watching my little sisters do their cheers for the fourth grade basketball team. i couldn't watch the game for more than 10 seconds without staring at the shadows on the court and thinking about the boy on the sidelines in the wheelchair. he was watching his younger brother play. he had played basketball and soccer and football until a little over a year ago when an accident left him paralyzed. his life is defined now, and so is he. i wonder how it feels to know you will always be on the sidelines.

<p>i don't know when i started noticing the unnoticed, but it hasn't been for long enough. i don't know why some people are ignored. i don't know why we don't think thoughts about them. i don't assume my thoughts about them are worth much. i do assume they don't want my pity thoughts. and i do have pity for them, but i also have questions. they must know things unnoticers miss knowing.

<p>Posted by red clay at February  7, 2005 12:29 AM | TrackBack

<p>