<h>Timothy Tut Chol, was responsible for contacts between NSCC and the SPLA

<p>On the side of USDF we have Bill Mar.

<p>We have Faruk Gatkuoth, also of USDF.

<p>The two who could not attend from Europe are Ruth Danier, and Majok Guando.   I now invite Rev. Bill Lowrey to tell us something of the preparations.

<p>BL:

<p>Ever since the Loki Accord was signed on 10th June, 1998 we have had a team working on this Conference to take place in BeG. When we met in Loki the chiefs and churchleaders from the West side of the Nile put together their plans for this conference. One of the things they said was that this would be a conference of the people, in which local people would take the lead, and it would not include poliltical leaders. They may be present as observers but not as participants. They said that all of the people must be mobilised to participate in this conference, that NSCC should prepare the Conference, and that observers from around the world must be invited to attend. So for these many months there have been numerous people involved. Gradually the group has changed, with women and chiefs always part of the process, and always there has been the desire to have Dinka and Nuer from outside as full partners in the process. So I now want to introduce you to some of those people who are here now. Some are not present, but have worked hard over the months, but I'll introduce you to those who are now with us. The Chairman of our Team is Dr. Haruun Ruun.

<p>We have two people who have worked to mobilise the people in BeG and in Western upper Nile. One is Rev. Matthew Mathiang Deng. The second is Judge Telar Deng. We have had two women who have been involved with us, Awut Deng whom you heard speak this morning. The second is Nyawaraga Joshua who is not able to be with us today. We have asked intellectuals from the Diaspora to come and be part of this team. One of those is Dr. Peter Nyot Kok from Germany, and the other is Dr. Michael Lual Duany from the USA. Always, as it was possible, we have asked that Chiefs meet with us so that they could observe if we were keeping on the path that was set for us at Loki. And I, Dr. Bill Lowrey, have served as a facilitator for this Team. The two chiefs who have been most involved with us throughout this process are, first, Chief Dut Malual, who I understand is sick in Nairobi, and we are missing him. The second of them is Chief Isaac Magok from Leer (stands, waving his fly whisk).

<p>Now I would like to tell you a short story from the Bible, that sets the stage for the Dinka to tell their story before the Nuer, and for the Nuer to tell their story before the Dinka. This is a story that I told in Loki for the chiefs and leaders in Loki, and that was the beginning of three days in which they told their stories, each group to the other. As you know, today is Sunday, which is the first day of the week. It was on a Sunday, after Jesus had died on the cross and been raised from the dead, that this story took place. Most of the disciples were together in a special room, but one was missing. His name was Thomas. And suddenly Jesus appeared in the room, and his message was, "Peace be with you." The disciples were excited to see him, but when they told Thomas, he would not believe it. He said, unless I see him, and put my fingers in his side where the spear went in, I will not believe it. One week later, again on a Sunday, Jesus appeared in the room and Thomas was present. Jesus said to Thomas, "Reach out your fingers and feel the wound where the spear went in."

<p>This is a conference about reconciliation. Thomas could not be reconciled until he could see the wounds that he had helped to cause, and touch the places where Jesus had been wounded. For seven and a half years now, Nuer have caused wounds and injuries to the Dinka, and for seven and a half years now, Dinka have caused wounds and injuries to the Nuer. If you want to be reconciled you must tell each other the wounds you have suffered, you must look at each other, and reach out and touch one another in the places where you have been wounded. It will be important that you speak the truth, that you not hide anything from another, so that the reconciliation goes deep, and it is a genuine healing of the wounds you have inflicted. When you speak the truth, when you say the hard things to each other, when you identify the issues that must be solved, then you can reconcile relationships, and you can walk out of here, saying now we are brothers and sisters once again. In just a few minutes, you as the Dinka, will begin to tell the Nuer your stories. Do not hold back. Tell the true stories, no matter how painful it may be. In just a few minutes, when the Dinka tell their stories, you Nuer, you must listen carefully. Do not debate with them, do not argue with them. Relationships begin with listening. And when they have finished you will tell your stories to them. The time of beautiful speeches is over. It is now time for the hard work of peace. You must make a peace that will last. When I sit down, this will be your work. You, Nuer and Dinka, must make this peace and determine how deep the peace will go. May God give you the strength you need.

<p>TD:

<p>Okay, I introduce to you Dr. Peter Nyot Kok, who will take the chair as the Dinka present their narratives. The first speaker will be Chief Dut Yol.

<p>Dr. Peter Nyot Kok:

<p>I greet you warmly, you Nuer and Dinka, you chiefs and elders, women and youth, you soldiers, may you all be blessed here. The talk today and onwards is for you the chiefs to talk, not me. However, after you have concluded your statements, I will speak. Peace and reconciliation began yesterday when a white bull was sacrificed, and libations were poured. We had already raised the house of peace, but what remains is the plastering of the walls and floor and roofing of the building of peace. However, this is not easy work that is before us. If we plaster the house wrongly it is likely that insects will still bight us. If we don't put up good poles it is likely that the house will leak. I will start with what Bill Lowrey has said, that we must draw from the experience of our ancestors. We do each stage of the work so that it is successful, and it is a solid house. During our meeting we will begin with the chiefs who attended the meeting in Loki, and we will move ahead so that a representative from each county has opportunity to speak. I am appealing to the translators who are speaking in Dinka, Nuer or English that you work to translate accurately, because this is a difficult aspect of our work. Now I will call Chief Kulong Marial and, secondly, Chief Juol Macok. Together they will have one hour to speak.

<p>Chief Kulong Marial:

<p>I will not speak at length. I have been a chief for a long time, in the area of Mapeer in Rumbek. By ethnic group I am Agar from BeG Region. Some months ago I attended the meeting in Loki for the purpose of reconciliation between Dinka and Nuer. When I returned from Loki I disseminated the content of the Accord among Dinka and Nuer. Recently, I also participated in the exchange visits of the Chiefs, stopping at Leer, and here. Yesterday we began our reconciliation by offering a white bull, and we said all that needed to be said, and the bull is now in its eternal existence above. It has always been our traditional practice that, when we have conflicts, as we often do, we make sacrifice and we are able to reconcile and return to our normal life. Usually we conclude by confirming an accord between ourselves and Nuer with an accord that states we will no longer raid one another so there is no more loss of property or life. At the end of every conference we come out with declarations which are sent to Leer, Mapeer, Tonj, and elsewhere, confirming that we should no longer fight each other. And the present reconciliation, being assisted by the churches, means that we address the issues that divide us and bring conflict and we put an end to them. Sometimes back we had a conference in Gainlel, and we sacrificed bulls and that concluded our conflicts between Dinka and Nuer. As well, we had a conference at Wuniloor, and that meeting ended our problems until the conflicts of Anyanya I brought out new conflicts between Dinka and Nuer. The border conflicts intensified again with the tension between SPLA and Nuer, giving thieves concerned with their own well-being opportunity to exploit our differences. As well, our differences have been exploited by our enemies. D&N are brothers, who share common borders. With our sacrifice yesterday our hostility was brought to an end. There are people who are against this peace agreement, who have benefited from our hostility. There will be some who will come trying to persuade our peoples on each side to believe that the other will not be faithful to our agreement, but we must not listen to these deceptive words. We have always been fighting each other, D&N, but has never before happened that we deserted lands such as Mapeer. Today it is other people who have come in to exacerbate these conflicts. An example is that our ancestral home of Rumbek was in the hand in the enemy. Now that we have captured it from the enemy we have made alterations and we are able to occupy our own lands comfortably. As I said, in respect to Rumbek, I can now return to my ancestral home of Mapeer and we can settle there once again. Normally, in the relationship between us and Nuer, what keeps conflicts from being concluded, is when various pretexts are brought up, saying we must locate the thief, and find the details of the case. All of these are delaying tactics, which should not deter us from peaceful coexistence. Yesterday we sealed our covenant. It is not in Dinka tradition that we should begin accusing one another, or quarrelling with one another, after sacrifice is offered. We should not be doing this here. Our gathering here is heard all over the world, in Khartoum and Juba, and many other places. Thus, in my view, there is no use in talking about past grievances. What we need to focus on is concrete actions to be taken to bring peaceful co-existence between our peoples. From this day forward we must stop the killing of women and children, and destruction of our properties. We reconcile ourselves from Yirol, Rumbek and Bentiu. I will not proceed further with my address. This is the message I'm telling the people of Gogrial and Tuic, that our reconciliation was concluded yesterday with the offering of our white bull. This is my word.

<p>PNK:

<p>We have heard Chief Kulong Marial. Our second speaker is Chief Jol Macok.

<p>Chief Jul Macok Lieny:

<p>I am Agar from Rumbek. I am grateful to all who have organised this conference. I'm grateful to Bill Lowrey and greet him. I warmly greet my brothers from Bentiu, as well as those from BeG. Also, I greet those from Nairobi. We are here for peace and reconciliation, which we have accepted. This conference we declare that we have fully accepted this reconciliation. If we were in a court I would have asked questions from the people of Bentiu. When people first began going to Bongo, the training camp, it was because of the problem of the South that took them. When those who went to Bongo split apart, it was unfortunate that we accepted that separation. I never thought there was a government in Leer, until I saw the Commissioner of Leer. I have no bad commissioner from Leer. When we said earlier that we should save lives, I also accept fully what you said, because I have a border with Chief Malual Wun. In my community I have a few people from Bentiu, like those staying here at Wunlit. Our relationship with the people of Adoor, that is those of Yirol and Rumbek, is that we are children of one family. We had no part in the division that had happened. When I said I wanted to ask question of the people of Bentiu, I actually wanted to ask questions of those of Adoor. As a good gesture, and to declare that we accept peace, I want to say that those who raided cattle on the 18th have now been apprehended, and the cattle are to be returned. The civil administration in Rumbek ordered all chiefs to apprehend the raiders and return the cattle. This has now been done. (TD: I believe Chief Chul was speaking of two raids. One was on the 19th of February, and the other on the 8th. I believe that the those who were responsible for the first have been apprehended.) Before all who are in attendance here I want to affirm that we have agreed to accept the peace between us. At present we have people who have gone from Yirol to Adoor and they have been welcomed by the residents. I will conclude here by saying that we have reconciled with the people of Malual Wun as of today.

<p>PNK:

<p>We have one half of an hour remaining from the time given to Rumbek, and we invite any other speakers from Rumbek, if they have anything to contribute. From Rumbek we have previously four people. We have Marial Malwal Arop and Col Madul Rilpiou. I now give opportunity to Chief Marial Malual Arop, to speak toward a peace that cannot be broken, cannot be demeaned by crooks.

<p>Chief Marial Malual Arop:

<p>What I have to say is brief. Our father, Malual Wun, I greet them with those who came with him. I also greet all the chiefs from BeG. I want to greet our father Malual Wun is because he was active working together with my father. When Chief Kulong returned from Loki I asked if Chief Malual was still alive. Malual is now the only one remaining chief with sons of the chiefs who once were his counterparts. We are all children, of this one father who remains, Malual Wun. If there is a complicated problem, and your father is still alive, he would be the one who restrains the children from self destruction. The wisdom of CMW and our wisdom is not the same. He began working since the time of the British with our fathers. Most of us began working during the time of independence with the Arabs. We have always thought that CMW of the saying in Dinka. A lion said to a father to give him his children so he could eat them. Today all our fathers are gone except CMW. The lion ate all the elderly people, but one old person was hidden by his children. The lion that ate the elderly people happened to swallow a snake with water. The snake would come from his stomach, peaking out from his mouth. On person suggested that he bring and old man to take the snake from the stomach of the lion, wouldn't the lion eat the old man? The lion accepted the old man to be brought. He came and asked the lion to lay down, and tied a rat to the leg of the lion. Then the snake crawled out to eat the snake.

<p>To you, our father Malual, you are the only father of all our peoples among D&N. Now we want to draw out the snake now. If you have accepted that the snake in your stomach should be brought out by the rat we have accepted to bring out the snake, and that is why we have killed the white bull yesterday. Let your lion not come again to attack the children and the women. How could we refuse to accept peace? The toc which we have been sharing. Is your area Ganlil now empty of people? We have accepted reconciliation. When we bypass what our brother said before, and we sit to discuss the past grievances, we are quenching the fire with water and not quenching the fire with more fire. If there is any disagreement between the sides then we will not reach our conclusion. Let us close the old chapter since Anyanya I and begin a new chapter. This is not a court. If it were a court we would enumerate our grievances. If we are committed to reconciliation, let us not account for the past. Let us simply enter the reconciliation and act as brothers. Let peace multiply as each person accepts peace and returns home to plant this seed among his own people. We people of Rumbek, we have a commissioner. We are following the policy that has been put in our mind since the conflict began. We are continuing with it. To conclude my talk, it is that we used quarrelled in the past, but today our conflict is different. I believe we are one, we can follow each other's footsteps. We have now accepted reconciliation and peace. If people sit in such a house as this, this is a house of God. And if somebody comes against this you, our brother. Whatever the quarrel in the past, let it conclude. My word stops here.

<p>PNK:

<p>I thank you for your word, you people of Rumbek. Those of Rumbek are left with 5 minutes. Chief Col Madol Arilpiou will speak in this time.

<p>Chief Col Madol Arilpiou:

<p>The first person I will greet is God. As we are here in this house of God, we have been taught by the Christians. God hates Jealousy and hatred. God has tied the leg of hatred down now. This jealousy is called You, our brothers, Nuer, and Jieng, we have been made to collide. The two pieces of wood that have been put together to cause the fire. God has divided things long ago. He gave Nuer the young cow. He gave Dinka the old cow. This brought conflict, that we must now bring to an end. We Dinka we are willing to accept reconciliation with all our hearts, but we have some doubt about our brothers Nuer. You, Nuer, when we have something good, you change it into something bad the following day. The reason I say this, is that we went to Bongo because we have a problem. The Arab claims this land. When we went to Bongo it was because of that problem with the Arabs, but then we began to quarrel among ourselves. We have killed ourselves in greater numbers than our original enemy ever killed us. The conflict between D&N, has led to the point that the women are now the ones who die in large numbers. In the old days the men died and were eaten by birds, but today the women die. This has come from you Nuer. You are the cause of the death of women. You Malual, you stop that attitude, and stop killing women and children for no reason.

<p>PNK:

<p>The addresses of Rumbek County are finished, and I thank you three chiefs. We have heard your words in full. As well I thank our brothers Nuer for listening carefully to what has been said. This is not the end of those who will speak. We will continue in the days ahead. Now we turn to the list of Chiefs of Tonj County which I have just received. There are three people: Chief Dut Yol, Chief Gum Mading Akucbeny, and our mother Sadia Manok. Just now I invite Dut Yol to come speak. You, people of Tonj County, you have but one hour to speak.

<p>Chief Dut Yol:

<p>My name is Dut Yol Manyok, a man of Tonj County, and the section of . I will not speak at length. What I will say first is that I am pleased that all our people have gathered here. First I will speak about those things that have gone bad between us. I don't know what has killed me. First of all, we have simply been staying with the Nuer. When we went to the bush they took our children. What made them to quarrel in Bongo we still don't understand. Those who stayed with us as our brothers, they began to kill us. Some were staying with us and our people tried to kill them, but we refused. Those who wanted to return to their homes, we accompanied them. Some are still staying with us today. We have the chief called Mading Manyel who was killed together with his entire family and 18 cattle camps. Also 150 people were killed, and 5 of our young women were taken who are with them until the present day. When they came they also attacked the section of Det Madheu. They took almost 20,000 head of cattle. 90 people were killed at once. Also, during the rainy season, they came and attacked the place of Makuac. When they came back to attack for the second time they took everything, leaving not even a dog or a chicken. they raided the entire cattle camp. All the homesteads were burned, all of Makuac was burned to the ground. After 11 days Aboc was raided, Cattle camp of , Wunicuei,

<p>Mabior, Aboc, Makuac, Waiyaar CC, Wunicuei, Bikliir. They took all the chickens, the women children. Only a few of us remained who ran away. Now that you have come I am not angry, but happy. If even one person remains, and we have peace, that person can multiply. What I'm not happy about is our brother Nuer were the ones to start to explain why they have been killing me. This would have been far better. We have been reconciled by a man called Telar Ring in a place called Maal. Why they kill us, we would have preferred if they had spoken first so that they can explain precisely why they have killed us as revenge. Since they are with us now, and they all know me. some of them have their children staying with us here. Those children who I have accompanied back home, they are home now. I now want our brothers to speak out the grievances they have against me so I can understand. But the source of our quarrel is this, the Nuer and we are one. I don't look at them as enemies. We share one toc and one border between us. We regard them as our elders to ourselves because their father is elder. When their father was born he could not her but was deaf. When my father was born he was blind. He came in a secret way, my deaf uncle to raid my cattle because my father could not see. My father went to God and said that this brother comes and steals my cattle. And God said, okay, it is something good. God gave a girl to our Dinka father who was blind. Once he married, he never produced another blind man among his children. And the deaf father of Nuer never produced a deaf man. All their children have been healthy. I don't know what has happened. After we have produced good children we still carry on this old tradition because they have not liberated themselves from the way of their father.

<p>Today God went to bring a foreigners and told them, if these two peoples quarrel, stand between them, and see why they are quarrelling. Today, especially it is the Church leaders who have come here. It is the right time for them to ask us what our problem is so that it can be resolved between us. What I know in my heart this year, after they have killed our children, and killed our children, and taken all our cattle, and all the goats, after all of this, what remains is only their brother who is blind is their brother. They can take their blind brother and kill him. This is not the first reconciliation talks. We began them in Gainlel, and again we came to Mal. Today, in Wunlit, this is the third peace reconciliation. Those of you who have organised this conference, I ask you to invite our brother Nuer to speak out precisely what is in them, why they have destroyed us. You who organised this conference, I will not bother to talk about the loss of the cattle, or other property, or dead people. What we want from you, our brothers, are those young girls. Sincerely speaking, I ask you to send our girls back, we will console ourselves with them. Please release them to us.

<p>The second point to finalise my talk: if we want to be reconciled. Yesterday the white bull was killed. I will go back to my home and sit in my house, and try to buy simple goat. My talk is ended, but this point I will stress.

<p>(Goes across the room to put his house on the head f the old chief. he did this to show that his heart is open, he has nothing remaining, but his heart is open to reconciliation.)

<p>PNK: I am grateful for the word from Chief Dut Yol and for the gift he has given chief Kuol Muon. At the end of his talk, and as a sign of his reconciliation he has offered his had to the Nuer chief. Now we invite Chief Gum Mading Akucbeny. While we relay our story telling about past events, we also want to point to action we need to take to make peace in the future. We have between Gum Mading and Chief ... one half an hour.

<p>Chief Gum Mading Akucbeny:

<p>From the beginning I want to tell you this (begins to sing his own song, to which people respond; begins by saying, "I am Gum Mading . . ."). My name is Chief Gum Mading Akucbeny. I thank God and the NSCC for choosing Wunlit as a location for this conference. To my mind a genuine reconciliation will not include only D&N, but it must include all Southern Sudanese. This conference has also provided us with opportunity to meet with our children who have been cut off from us in Khartoum whom we've not met for a very long time. This conference has also provided an opportunity for our kinfolk in Europe and America to come so that we can meet one another. It is very good that our children whom we've taken to school to learn English and Arabic have also come to Wunlit, and that all people will now be able to hear that we have met at Wunlit to bring peace to the land. Yesterday during the opening the military authorities of the SPLA were here and we have seen them. We did not, however, know that there were military and civil administration from Bentiu who were likewise with us. We are glad to hear that there is a military commander coming directly from where Riak is staying to be in our deliberations, and that he will return to tell Riak of our progress.

<p>The first thing I would like to say, concerns we chiefs, who have remained with our people in S. Sudan and sent our children to schools or to Bilpham for training. The problems that occurred at Bilpham did not begin there, but they originated right here prior to their departure. In 1984 a group of young men from Gogrial and Tonj began departing for Bilpham. As they went they naturally had to pass through Nuerland. As they reached Abuong they were intercepted. Many were killed and others were drowned while some returned. This had nothing to do with the leadership. In the spirit of reconciliation we must begin with the genesis of the problem. It is not with the leadership. We would like to know the chief who was responsible for the killing of our young men as they were en route to Bilpham. It is important to begin with the genesis of the problem. That is why I asked for the senior military commander. That route through Abuong became unsafe for our the passage of our people and we were forced to move any parties through Bor area as our only alternative route. I challenge you, asking someone to come and tell me that this is not the real state of affairs, as I have described it. The route through Bor was a far longer route for our people. When we decide to reconcile and become one, I must tell you that, currently, we now have two of our people with you in Nuer. They have now devastated Gograil, . . . and Tuic areas. When you prepared to come, did you first really speak with them to ask what they intend to do. If we are sincere about reconciliation I address myself to those from Nuer area. You have with us Carbino Kwanyiny Bol and Matip. Does it really make sense for us to reconcile if they are not with us, because these two people are with you now. If we reconcile without their participation I believe our efforts will be incomplete. s we are all Southerners, we have lost our women and children, cattle and properties. I am glad to here that the Commissioner from Bentiu is here with us. As you saw yesterday, we have responsible people with us here from our side. I would hope we can also speak with Riak Machar to tell him that we as Southerners have lost everything we possess through our conflicts. First let us be practical, you the chiefs from N and from D. As you have seen yesterday, we don't have an army. Yesterday Governor Nhial Deng Nhial and Commander Selva Kiir were here to guard any agreement we come to in this place. What about you? Who will ensure that our agreement stands firm in your areas? When Chief Majok came here . . . Tell me, if we go to your area will we find that our Dinka are still alive there? As I said before, the Nuer are here with their property, they are here with their cattle and their children. If you want to take them with you are welcome to take them. But I would only ask that you reciprocate, allowing our Dinka people to return to us also. I conclude with greetings, and emphasise before the organisers, that this peace and reconciliation will be monitored, so that the Dinka can go to Nuerland and claim their properties and likewise the Nuer can come to Dinkaland to receive what belongs from them.

<p>PNK:

<p>I thank the two chiefs who have spoken now for their penetrating insights. I thank the Nuer for listening patiently to the presentation of the Dinka chiefs. Among the speakers from Tonj Country is Sadia . . . and in the spirit of this conference we would also like to hear the voice of our women. We will begin tomorrow at 9:00 again hearing the narratives of the Dinka. We will give three hours for the remainder of the presentations from the Dinka. Although the time allotted to the representatives from Tong is finished, will give a brief opportunity to Sadia to speak. I thank you all for your participation today.

<p>