<h>UK woman sent to jail for transmitting HIV

<p>20th June 2006

<p> 

<p>A second British woman has been sent to jail for infecting a lover with HIV.

<p>Sarah Jane Porter knew that she had HIV when she embarked on a two-year relationship with her partner, a 31-year-old DJ from London, but had repeated unprotected sex with him and failed to inform him of her status, resulting in him becoming infected with HIV himself.  When he told her of his HIV+ test result, she then accused him of having infected her.

<p>Psychologists told the court that Miss Porter was in complete denial about her HIV+ status and very fearful of the social stigma attached to it, which meant she felt unable to admit her condition.  She did however plead guilty to charges of recklessly causing Grievous Bodily Harm in court, and expressed regret at the hurt she had caused.  She was sentenced to 32 months in jail.

<p>This case is the latest in a series of criminal HIV transmission cases in England and Wales, which many AIDS organisations say shows a worrying return of the culture of blame and stigma that surrounded the epidemic in the early years.

<p>AVERT, like a number of other HIV and AIDS charities, is sympathetic to anyone who becomes infected with HIV and strongly discourages anyone from concealing their HIV+ status from their partner.  We fully recognise the distress caused by a positive HIV test result, the difficulties of living with HIV, and the betrayal felt by those who have been infected by the person they love, so we can understand why the individual in this case chose to pursue this matter in a court of law.

<p>However, AVERT also holds the position that the current method of criminalising ‘reckless’ transmission is very unhelpful from the perspective of public health and that of discrimination and stigma.

<p>The fact that reckless HIV transmission is now potentially a criminal matter, means that the police are assuming they have the right to fully investigate anyone they suspect of having passed on HIV, sometimes on the most tenuous of hear-say evidence.  The original complaint against Miss Porter was filed by a man with whom she had recently split up.  This man was HIV negative, but his account lead police to search Miss Porter's flat for evidence of previous partners, an investigation which eventually led them to a 31-year old DJ, who was HIV+ and willing to take his former girlfriend to court.  Such investigations represent a gross invasion of privacy, and paint a worrying picture of a police force that is wasting many man hours actively tracking down and encouraging former partners to make a complaint.  Such activity may be portrayed as justified in cases such as Miss Porter's, where a conviction was ultimately obtained, but it is believed that in many instances, police will raid homes and seize medical records of entirely innocent people, purely on the basis of a complaint from a former lover seeking revenge.

<p>When cases such as Miss Porter's do then get taken to court, they often end in prison sentences for the defendant. UK prisons are already overcrowded, and many studies have shown that HIV transmission inside prisons is a common occurance.  A prison sentence is also unlikely to help the guilty party (or indeed the victim) come to terms with their HIV status or change their behaviour, nor is it going to act as a deterrent to others – the law rarely features as a point of consideration in the bedroom, as is evident from the huge numbers of young people that have sex under age.  We therefore believe that if criminal prosecutions are to take place at all, psychological counselling to help end their denial about their status would be a far more useful outcome, and better still, HIV campaigns and education should be made far more prominent to help people protect themselves from infection in the first place.

<p>High profile court cases on such personal relationship matters are often lengthy, and highly stressful for both sides (indeed, a number of ‘victims’ now regret having tried to get justice through a court of law).  They can also heighten the stigma and idea of blame around the disease (which is one of the reasons why Miss Porter failed to tell her partner about it in the first place) and could put people off testing for HIV, in the belief that if they don’t know their status, they can’t get prosecuted.  Finally, they also place the responsibility for using condoms on one person, when it should of course be a shared decision wherever possible.

<p>In light of these complexities, and indeed many others that are further discussed in our Criminal Transmission Page , AVERT believes that there needs to be a thorough review of the law in this area, to provide guidance to the police, judges and the press on how to handle cases such as these, and to ensure that stigma, misinformation and damage to public health are kept to a minimum.

<p> ( The Independent , 20/06/06 and BBC.co.uk , 19/06/06)

<p> 

<p>Two new progress reports released on HIV in the UK

<p>7th June 2006

<p> 

<p>Two reports, one by the UK AIDS and Human Rights Project (AHRP), the other by the National AIDS Trust (NAT) have both praised the UK’s record of funding and supporting HIV and AIDS programmes overseas, but say that the HIV epidemic in the country itself is being overlooked.

<p>The United Nation's General Assembly (UNGASS) Declaration of Commitment on HIV and AIDS outlines the action that every member state must take in order to tackle HIV and AIDS in their country.  Many see the UNGASS declaration, which was updated and renewed at last week’s high level UN meeting on HIV/AIDS, as a commitment that only applies to poor countries carrying the greatest burden of HIV.  However, the declaration is equally applicable within countries more traditionally seen as aid ‘donors’, including the UK.

<p>With 7750 new infections diagnosed in 2005 alone, the United Kingdom has one of the highest rates of HIV in Western Europe.  Yet according the NAT report, in the last two years, there has not been a single speech given by the Prime Minister or any Cabinet Minister focussing on the problem in the UK.  The National Strategy for Sexual Health and HIV has not been updated or even reviewed since 2001, and there are no firm governmental targets relating to the reduction of HIV infection in the population.  The budget for HIV prevention is also decreasing, particularly in London, where the majority of cases are diagnosed.

<p>The AHRP report also reveals that the UK Department of Health failed to submit a report on its progress towards achieving the Declaration of Commitment goals before the UN's deadline in December.

<p>Such information has worried many AIDS organisations in the UK, who fear that the recent focus on AIDS in Africa is leading people (and apparently the government) to believe that it is no longer a problem in the country.

<p>There is however some good news.  Treatment of HIV in the UK is second-to-none, with everyone entitled to treatment receiving optimal care.  The Disability Discrimination Act now ensures that HIV+ people cannot legally be discriminated against, and mother-to-child transmission has been reduced dramatically over the past 10 years thanks to the implementation of opt-out antenatal HIV screening.  Some policies relating to the controversial area of HIV and migration have also been improved, with HIV+ asylum seekers now only being ‘dispersed’ around the country if they can be guaranteed access to HIV care and uninterrupted treatment.  Failed asylum-seekers and undocumented immigrants however still continue to face unaffordable charges for National Health Service HIV treatment, and the threat of deportation back to a country where HIV drugs are either scarce or non-existent.

<p>Both reports now call for the UK government to renew its commitments on AIDS, to stem the annual rise in new cases and ensure that all those affected by the illness in the UK receive appropriate care and support.

<p>