<h>Page 4

<p>A bird's eye view

<p>As my flight enters the broad mouth of the Thames Estuary, I savour the bird's-eye view of this area I know so well. The coastline resembles the gaping, dislocated jaws of some fossilised dinosaur that once roamed here, but time has rendered it harmless and tides have scattered its teeth to form countless islands. My eyes scan the pewter-grey mudbanks and mudflats and a distant shoreline etched with filigrees of sinuous creeks. My fellow passengers mostly ignore the fantastic views, because this isn't a 'must-see' UK destination - and yet it's one of those rare places where big skies reach to limitless horizons, giving a sense of wilderness, where encountering another person is a rare event. And though it looks empty, it teems with wildlife.

<p>The estuary narrows and the coastline becomes increasingly industrialised. Buildings and chimneys crowd the shores as we descend into London. It's good to be reminded I can find an antidote to city life on my doorstep, where the 'Garden of England' hides its wild nature.

<p>Complex area

<p>The North Kent Marshes is a complex area extending from Gravesend to Whitstable. Their beauty is an acquired taste - often bleak and unwelcoming, they lack the chocolate-box charms of the North Downs, and the horizon is punctuated by exclamation marks from power-station chimneys. Their natural resources have been exploited since Roman times, and the flotsam and jetsam of human enterprise have left areas of dereliction that are surprisingly species-rich - who would believe that rare ants, bees and wasps favour such places? And, despite industrialisation, large areas are wild and seldom explored.

<p>Worth staying a while

<p>The marshes can be visited in a day from London, but they don't reveal themselves easily. For a longer stay, choose Rochester as a base. From here, you'll find that cycling and walking is the way to penetrate the best wildlife areas. It takes four days to walk along the Saxon Shore Way from Gravesend to Whitstable (cyclists can follow the National Cycle Route), but it's more rewarding to make diversions and dip in and out as the fancy takes. I have selected three locations to give a taste of the main habitats in the area.

<p>