<h>2-1/2

<p>F. HOW MEDIA AND COMPOUNDS WORK

<p>Mass finishing media works basically in the  same manner as the materials used in hand finishing. FIG 10  a-d

<p>The main difference is that a machine is used to apply the  force through the tool to the work piece. The other difference  is that a mass of pieces are being processed rather than one  piece at a time. Hence, the name Mass Finishing. FIG 11

<p>In order to perform the CUTTING OPERATION, we must choose  the best combination of abrasive grain, bonding material,  size, shape and the proper compound to use during the process.  The cutting media works in the same manner as a grinding wheel.  A force is required to rub the media across the surface of  the work piece. FIG 12

<p>At the point of contact of media and the work piece, abrasive  grains are exposed at the surface of the media and rubbed  across the work piece, microscopically cutting material from  its surface. As material is being cut away from the work piece,  the abrasive grains are becoming dull as they do their job.  FIG 13a,b

<p>Meanwhile, the bonding material is wearing away so as to rid  the media of these dull abrasive grains and to expose new  sharp grains to continue the cutting process. The water and  compound are used to cushion this effect as well as to remove  all of the waste (used abrasive grains, bonding material,  work piece surface material) from the operation. Economics  now come into play when choosing the proper cutting media.

<p>The faster a media cuts, the faster it normally wears which  equates to dollars per finishing operation. If the bonding  agent of the media does not wear fast enough, the abrasive  grains may not perform as effective as they should. There  is an optimal wear ratio between the bond and the grain. If  this ratio is not correct, the media is less cost effective.  Regardless of these microscopic costs, the overall economic  scale of labor saving, material loss and overall time savings  make mass finishing a sure bet.

<p>THE PRE-POLISHING OPERATION is practically the same  as the cutting media except the bonding material is usually  harder and the abrasive grain size is smaller. In some cases,  the abrasive grain is in the form of slender finer shape.  By rubbing over the surface with a greater low of water and  a compound that lubricates more effectively, a gentle honing  action occurs. The purpose is to reduce the surface to a finer/smoother  finish. Typically, the wear of pre-polishing media is much  less than that of cutting media. We are less interested in  removing metal, than we are in reducing the surface finish.

<p>The POLISHING OPERATION is normally done as a dry process,  the media in this case is either of several natural products  like wood round up corn cob or nut shells. In this case, there  is no water flow and, the compound is dry and bonded to the  carrier. Some typical compounds are alumina and tin oxide,  which are the same compounds used for hand polishing In this  case, the rubbing action of the media is meant to -plicate  the action of a polishing wheel rubbing polishing compound  over the surface of the work piece. As long as the surface  has previously been rendered smooth and flat, this process  will now produce a high luster to the surface. This operation  usually takes a much longer time than the rough cut and pre-polish.  The finish that is achieved with this method is very good;  however, it will never be equal to that of a hand polished  finish No mass finishing machine has been able to duplicate  the force and action necessary to compare to hand polishing.  Hand polishing actually over the surface of the work piece  by dragging metal whereas machine polishing only glosses the  existing surface. During this operation, due tog the fact  that it is a dry process, heat is generated by the friction  of the in moving This heat is beneficial to the process because  it helps activate it polishing compound itself; therefore,  it is helpful to retain as much of the .at generated by covering  the process. Unlike cutting and pre-polishing' media, the  polishing media has a life span, after which it is no longer  effective This is due to the fact that the polishing compound  is only bonded to the surface of the media as opposed to the  abrasive grain being 81 bound throughout the whole composition.  However, once this media has been expended, it can be re-charged  for several more cycles before being discarded.

<p>BURNISHING MEDIA is typified by the lack of abrasives  and a hard and extremely smooth surface. The purpose of burnishing  is to brighten the surface of a material by means of peening  the surface. The correlation that we use to explain this is  if one took a plain dull piece of brass and a ball peen hammer.  After repeatedly hammering the surface, it will then take  on brightness imparted by the surface of the ball peen will  hammer.

<p> 

<p>Steel or stainless shot as well as porcelain balls are the  typical media of choice for burnishing. These are usually  the heaviest materials available and they are processed to  have a microscopically smooth and shiny surface finish.

<p> 

<p>IV MACHINES

<p>The media is what actually performs the surface  finishing. The compound allows this work to be done efficiently  but it is the machine that provides the energy to do all the  work. There are several different types of mass finishing  machines, all of which have a different method of transferring  energy from an electric motor to the media to the work piece.

<p>The TUMBLING MACHINE is the oldest form of mass finishing  equipment. A motor is attached to the gear box by means of  a pulley and belt. The gear box rotates an octagonal finishing  chamber which is either submerged in water or contains water  in its chamber. The chamber should be loaded with between  50% and 60% of the total chamber volume. About 15% to 25%  of the total mass should be work pieces In this equipment,  the pieces are only being worked on as the media and pieces  tumble down the incline of the rotating barrel. Meanwhile,  as the mass rotates up to the top of the incline, there is  no movement of media with respect to workpiece; therefore,  no work is (D 83 being done. This type of operation is still  effective for limited applications with longer time cycles  and a low quality finish.

<p>Efficiencies of Tumblers:

<p>Good for low cost, low quality finishes Good  for cutting & de-burring flat stackable work pieces Good for  low cost, low quality burnishing Deficiencies of Tumblers:  Labor intense for volume processing Not effective for polishing  Not effective to pre-polishing Flow-through compound system  not available More apt to get part on part impingement Will  not finish parts with deep recesses

<p>THE VIBRATORY TUB MACHINE was the next generation of mass  finishing equipment. It took the same basic idea of the tumbling  machine but created a new and more efficient means of transferring  energy from the motor to the tub. The chamber is "U" shaped  and suspended on springs. The shaft with eccentric weights  is attached to the chamber and is rotated by means of a belt  and pulley attached to the motor. There are still some of  the same inherent problems in this process as in tumbling  but now we have incorporated a flow-through compound system  and vibratory action for more efficiency.

<p>The VIBRATORY BOWL machine was the next generation  of mass finishing and remains the most popular and most effective  to date. The processing chamber is the shape of a hollowed  doughnut laying on its side. A motor is attached to a shaft  with eccentric weights which is fixed to the bowl shaped chamber  which is suspended on springs. The ensuing action causes the  mass to travel in a three dimensional toroidal motion.

<p>This type of action allows for the most efficient  processing of work pieces. The work chamber can almost be  filled to capacity as well as allowing the high concentration  of work pieces in relationship to the mass.

<p>Efficiencies of Vibratory Bowl:

<p>