<h>he most important point       is to continue our way

<p>and to have a good successor.

<p> 

<p>On Sunday, November 21, at ten in the morning, the halls and courtyard       of Zen Center were filled with people talking softly and waiting. They had       come for the Mountain Seat Ceremony in which Richard Baker was to be       installed as the chief priest of Zen Center. The foyer and hallway were       lined with rows of chairs. The buddha hall, where the ceremony was to take       place, was too small for the five hundred guests. Chinese, Tibetan, and       Japanese priests of various sects attended with some of their disciples.       Many of the key figures in Suzuki's life in America were there: Wako and       Emi Kato, Reverend Ogui, George Hagiwara, and many from the Japanese       congregation of Sokoji. Bill McNeil stood in a corner in a leather jacket;       poets and artists from the old Beat days came in the front door. So many       people who had become deeply

<p>connected in the past twelve years, so many stories like fibers running       among them, so many for whom Suzuki had opened dharma gates or been there       with a nudge when their lives turned.

<p>The bell downstairs was being struck every minute, informing the crowd       that it was time to settle down. People patiently sat or stood where they       were. They could hear a procession moving from Katagiri's apartment up the       street, into the building, and to its various altars. The rumble of the       deep buddha drum echoed in the halls—the high chin-chun! of       handheld bells a half-tone apart and the kachin! of wooden       clackers, the music of the moving rite. On the second floor the procession       stopped outside Suzuki's room, where Richard offered incense and said: "Although I don't know how I came, through your heart-teaching I am       always here."

<p>Katagiri-roshi, Kobun-sensei, and a few of Suzuki's senior monks       accompanied Richard down the stairs to the hushed buddha hall. Richard       wore a blue and gold robe with bright-colored flying phoenixes, which       Suzuki had given him for this day. He carried a ceremonial horsehair       whisk.

<p>The assembled crowd was utterly hushed when the spine-chilling sound of       intermittent thuds and jangling bells jolted everyone to attention. Suzuki       was walking with the staff Alan Watts had given him. Affixed to the top       was a bronze headpiece with rings. At his sides were Hoitsu and Okusan.       They helped him down the stairs and past those seated and standing along       the way, to the double doors of the buddha hall. With each step he struck       the floor with his staff, as if continuing to plant the dharma in America.       There he was, his reddish-brown okesa draping over a yellow koromo. All       eyes were on him. Many people hadn't seen him in his illness, and even to       those who had, his appearance was crushing. He was so dark, weak, and       shrunken. Yet as he moved into the buddha hall toward the specially built       Mountain Seat altar, his enormous effort and dignity shone through.

<p>Reaching the brocade-covered altar, still supported on both sides, he       slowly pulled out from the sleeve of his robe a bowing cloth. Gathering       his strength, he laid it out properly, bowed down to the

<p>floor, and rose, somehow, drawing strength from the depth of his will,       calm and powerful, the way frail old Kitano-roshi had risen from his bows       at Eiheiji, amazing and inspiring the young Suzuki. Hoitsu helped him to a       cushioned ceremonial chair to the right of the altar. He sat and looked       with eyes straight ahead yet downcast, as in zazen.

<p>People were just catching their breath when Richard Baker stepped       forward. After the Heart Sutra was recited, Richard stood before       the Mountain Seat altar and said in classical style: "This Mountain       Seat, climbed many times before, is the everywhere bodhimandala. With the       help of my Master and everyone here, in the ten directions and the three       times, I will climb this mind-seal altar. Do not wonder about it at       all."

<p>He offered incense to buddhas, bodhisattvas, and ancestors, to Trudy       Dixon, Katagiri-roshi, and "to my own subtle and compassionate       teacher, Suzuki Shunryu-daiosho," to whom he said, drawing from       Suzuki's own Mountain Seat Ceremony at Sokoji in 1962:

<p>This piece of incense

<p>Which I have had for a long long time

<p>I offer with no-hand

<p>To my Master, to my friend, Suzuki Shunryu-daiosho,

<p>The founder of these temples.

<p>There is no measure of what you have done.

<p>Walking with you in Buddha's gentle rain

<p>Our robes are soaked through,

<p>But on the lotus leaves

<p>Not a drop remains.

<p>Richard sat on a red lacquered chair before the altar. Katagiri spoke       for Suzuki loud and clear: "Dragons and Elephants! Accept this holder       of Buddha's First Seat!"

<p>Then Richard Baker said, in what may be called the first lecture of his       abbotship, "There is nothing to be said."

<p>A mondo followed, ritualized yet impromptu questions, which

<p>Richard answered quickly and dramatically. Telegrams were read, formal       congratulations were made, and the ceremony was over.

<p>Suzuki was helped to face the altar, where he made another slow,       painful prostration from which he rose almost by himself. Then he started       down the aisle to leave. Halfway to the opened doorway he stopped in the       midst of his sangha, disciples, students, former students, admirers, old       friends, visiting teachers, and guests. There was utter silence. He looked       to the left, then decisively rolled the staff several times between his       hands; the rings at the top burst out jangling. He looked to the right and       rolled his staff again, and again the rings rang out. It was the sound of       an ultimate effort. It was the sound of his love and his freedom.

<p>Tears and sobbing began on all sides. Hearts cracked open. Everything       was suspended in his presence, in an immense shared feeling—a car       honking on the street, pigeons cooing, the crying in the room, and a deep       stillness. Time stopped. A moment that started the day he arrived in       America continued as he was helped out of the room, striking his staff to       the floor as he went. He left behind him a room full of palms pressed       together saying thank you, saying goodbye, saying what could not be said.

<p> 

<p>After the ceremony, Suzuki met with his disciples. Twenty or so sat on       the tatami in his sitting room. It was done. He'd passed on Zen Center,       Page Street, and Tassajara to Zentatsu Richard Baker, who sat next to him       a head higher in his fancy robes, his eyes down, the weight of what he'd       received all over him. Suzuki turned to him, nodded, and smiled. The room       was hushed. In a faint voice Suzuki said thank you to everyone and to       Richard and then, nodding toward Katagiri, another breathy thank you "for all you've done, for which I am so grateful." All of a       sudden a howl arose. It was Katagiri who crawled toward Suzuki crying out, "Don't die!" Sobbing, he hugged frail Suzuki, who said in a soft       rasp, "Daijobu. Daijobu" (It's all right).

<p> 

<p> 

<p>Katagiri had said goodbye to Suzuki and was on his way back to       Tassajara for the last few weeks of the practice period. He left in       sadness and with some discomfort at his situation. Seven years he'd served       Suzuki—hard work, low pay, no time off. Katagiri was dependable and had       a seamless constant practice. He'd come to be seen as a coteacher by many.       Suzuki and Katagiri had contained their feelings, speaking little through       the years. Until the meeting with his disciples following Richard's       Mountain Seat Ceremony, Suzuki had never verbally expressed his gratitude.

<p>Suzuki was still troubled by Katagiri's intention to leave. He wanted       him to remain a senior dharma teacher for the whole community. "Maybe       Katagiri can still help," he said to Okusan as he went to sleep.

<p>Katagiri wasn't the only person he had troubled thoughts about.       Unfinished business pressed at Suzuki. Bill. Silas. He wanted to take care       of his disciples. Suzuki's style was to let things happen, nudging them,       patiently waiting, acting skillfully by not acting rashly. He hadn't known       how quickly his illness would overcome him. Some disciples were disturbed.       A few had postponed or given up careers to devote themselves to studying       with this dying man. Would he leave no final instructions?

<p>So far Suzuki's instructions were not about practical matters but about       dying with dignity. It was tragic for his students to see the       deteriorating physical condition of their dear teacher, yet at the same       time it was marvelous to witness his composure and see how undiminished he       was at heart.

<p> 

<p>In his last meeting with Hoitsu before his son returned to Japan,       Suzuki implored, "Take care of Bill Kwong for me. Make sure Bill gets       transmission—you can do it for me."

<p>Suzuki wanted Hoitsu to be available to help his disciples in whatever       way he could, but Hoitsu knew his father didn't want him to interfere with       Richard. "Leave Zen Center to Richard," he'd said several times.       Hoitsu also knew that leaders need assistance, and his father knew it too.       Richard would need help from his elders, like

<p>Katagiri and Claude, and from his peers, like Bill and Silas. Even if       he disagreed with them, he should work with and respect them. Suzuki knew       there was rivalry but hoped it could move toward cooperation. "It is       done," he said to his son. "All I can do now is hope."

<p>With the trust he had in Richard and in others, and considering his       patience and acceptance of problems, Suzuki's hope might have included       more possibilities than were imagined by his students. If some disciples       couldn't work together, maybe they could work separately. If there were       sharp differences, maybe time would smooth the edges. Ultimately, if       people were sincere, it would be okay. He might have looked at his       students through his dying eyes and thought, as when Tatsugami landed, "You have no idea how much you're going to suffer."

<p> 

<p>Amano came to his bedside to say goodbye. "I've finished all my       duties," Suzuki told him. "Please report the details to the       members."

<p>"Hai," Amano answered in the affirmative.

<p>Suzuki gave Amano his mala bracelet with the skull-shaped beads. He       told Okusan to roll up a scroll for Yasuko and to give Hoitsu the staff       with the bronze rings he'd carried in the ceremony. The clanger on top of       the staff was the last item he wanted to return to Rinso-in, of those he       had borrowed when he'd left in 1959.

<p>"Well, we're leaving now," said Amano.

<p>"Okay. Goodbye, Father. Have a good trip," Suzuki said       softly.

<p>Hoitsu couldn't believe how casually the two said farewell, as if it       were just another day.

<p>Sitting on the plane before takeoff, Yasuko was crying. She wanted to       get off and stay with her father. Hoitsu told her they had to go back now       to help Amano explain to people what their father had been doing in       America these twelve years, what he had created and was leaving behind.       Nobody had really understood why he left. Now Amano, Yasuko, and Hoitsu       knew and could tell the others, who should feel some pride in this too.

<p> 

<p>