<h>Final Impressions

<p>"Literally within            minutes after the first attack on the            World Trade Center, EPA employees were            on the scene. Even in the midst of so            much loss and sorrow, you persevered.            ... Your quick response helped safeguard            the health of thousands of rescue workers            and civilians. ... Each and every one            of you has earned the respect of your            peers and the gratitude of a nation."

<p>EPA            Administrator Christine Todd Whitman

<p>"Excellence in Response" Employee Recognition            Ceremony

<p>July 3, 2002

<p>Opening Moments

<p>Seconds after the first explosion, Kathy Callahan, then acting      director of the region's Emergency and Remedial Response Division,      telephoned Bruce Sprague, head of the Response and Prevention      Branch in Edison, to set in motion the region's emergency response.      In those first moments, Callahan believed it was a horrendous      accident that might require EPA's involvement because of the smoke,      fire, and airplane fuel.

<p>View from EPA offices as

<p>second plane hit the South Tower

<p>Larger Picture

<p>Many employees witnessed the second plane's impact from their office      windows at 290 Broadway, just a few blocks from the World Trade      Center. One of them was Deputy Regional Administrator William      J. Muszynski, who was acting Regional Administrator for the first      three months of the response. "When the second plane hit," Muszynski says, "there was no question that this was not      an accident. You could tell from the way the plane approached      that it was no accident. That's when people in the building began      to be concerned that perhaps these (federal) buildings were also      targeted, and people began to leave the building."

<p>While the Manhattan office evacuated, EPA's Edison office geared      up.

<p>Neil Norrell was one of many Edison employees watching the events      unfold on TV. "When the second plane hit," Norrell says, "we just started getting stuff ready. We weren't sure what      we were going to do, but we figured we'd be doing something."

<p>The dust cloud approaches Chambers Street

<p>(shot from NYC Police helicopter)

<p>Larger Picture

<p>Within minutes, Sprague dispatched the first crew of Agency on-scene      coordinators (OSCs) from Edison to New York City to monitor ambient      environmental conditions. OSCs Mike Solecki, Mike Ferriola, Gad      Tawadros, and Bob Montgomery were a few blocks away when the first      tower began to collapse.

<p>"Someone yelled, ?I smell gas, I smell gas' and everyone      began running," Solecki says. "The dust there was so      thick, I couldn't see the hand in front of my face."

<p>The OSCs had to scramble just to find where New York City had      set up its temporary command center. The city's state-of-the-art      Emergency Operations Center had been located in the World Trade      Center complex and was destroyed in the collapse, sending the      mayor and other top officials scurrying for safety. All radio      communications were lost, and the dust was so bad, not even EPA's      satellite phones worked.

<p>Overcoming such obstacles, the OSCs took the first dust samples      within an hour or two of the collapse. "We didn't really      have a lot of sampling equipment," Solecki says, "So      we went to a local store and bought ziploc bags. We had to do      things like that," he says.

<p>Muszynski, who returned to his office after sending 290 Broadway      employees home and coordinated the Region 2 response through computer      contact with Sprague and phone contact with EPA headquarters,      points out, "While most people were going away from the site,      our emergency crews were coming toward the site. That's part of      the initial reaction, and I think it's predominantly because of      the training they have about how to respond to a disaster."

<p>"It wasn't until weeks later," Sprague recalls, "that      I realized, when I finally had some time to really think, I wonder      whether these guys thought about the danger that they were going      into. They were going to go through the Holland Tunnel. Well,      was the Holland Tunnel going to be blown up? Was there something      else that was going to happen? I didn't even think about that.      There were so many other things racing through my mind at that      time."

<p>Setting up air monitors in New Jersey

<p>Larger Picture

<p>Later that day, after the buildings collapsed, EPA sent crews from      its Environmental Response Team (ERT), also located in Edison,      to Brooklyn and Liberty State Park, just across from lower Manhattan.      The Brooklyn crew gathered dust and air samples, the New Jersey      team only air samples, "because the wind wasn't blowing there," Muszynski remembers.

<p>Three Region 2 employees lost family members in the attacks that      day. Many others, including OSC Steve Touw, lost dear friends.

<p>"Father Mychal Judge (the New York City Fire Department chaplain      listed as the first casualty of the World Trade Center attacks)      actually married my wife and I," Touw explains. "He      had been the parish priest at our church when my wife was in high      school and was very actively involved in the parish. So when we      got engaged, we immediately called Father Mychal and asked him      to come back and do the wedding. When I was driving home on the      night of the 11th, I got hold of my wife on the phone and she      told me she had heard on the news that Father Mychal was killed.      So I took this response very personally."

<p>Top of Page

<p>Week One: Directing the Response      from Edison

<p>With its lower Manhattan headquarters off-limits for nearly two      weeks, Region 2 began 24-hour operations in Edison. By the morning      of September 12, the analysis of the bulk dust samples taken on      the day of the attacks was completed, showing asbestos levels      ranging from non-detects to 4.5 percent (1 percent is the level      at which dust is considered to be asbestos-containing). That day,      EPA on-scene coordinators established nine monitoring stations      in the World Trade Center area.

<p>Although EPA eventually monitored for hundreds of contaminants,      OSC Chris Jimenez, who arrived at Ground Zero on September 12,      explains how they first approached the disaster. "The way      we started was, OK, we know asbestos is an issue. We know VOCs      (volatile organic compounds) are going to be an issue because      of the burning. We also knew there are other chemicals that you'll      find as a result of fires ? acid gases as an example. We      knew we were going to want to sample those immediately."

<p>Some monitoring was done

<p>Larger Picture

<p>Jimenez says that one of the first difficulties was in establishing      air monitoring locations. "We couldn't really get very close      because the police and fire departments were trying to keep everyone      back. It was incredibly smoky. We ended up having to run because      there were alarms going off from buildings possibly coming down."

<p>From Edison, the Region 2 leadership worked with EPA headquarters,      the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and New York city and      state agencies to coordinate a multi-faceted response, acting      on FEMA mission assignments under the Federal Response Plan triggered      by the disaster declaration issued by President Bush the night      of the attacks.

<p>In addition to the monitoring already under way, EPA assumed lead      responsibility for hazardous waste collection and disposal, street      vacuuming and power washing, and the operation of wash stations      for workers and trucks at Ground Zero and the landfill. (Strike      Teams from the U.S. Coast Guard's National Strike Force provided      enormous support ? both manpower and technical assistance ? as EPA carried out its mission assignments.)

<p>Vacuum truck working in front of the

<p>New York Stock Exchange

<p>Larger Picture

<p>Along with its critical role in protecting public health and safety,      EPA took part in helping Wall Street get up and running. On September      12, EPA began vacuuming the streets, using specially equipped      trucks to remove dust and debris from lower Manhattan's financial      district. Over the next few days, with help from the Coast Guard,      EPA also escorted financial district executives back to their      offices to retrieve backup computer system files.

<p>OSC Andy Confortini explains: "The Bond Market Association      would fax over a list of the firms that needed to get into their      buildings. We would set up a schedule to meet up with them outside      the Ground Zero perimeter, get them onto our vehicles, take them      down to their buildings, give them a mask and take them where      they had to be to get their backup systems and files. The Coast      Guard would go there the day before to evaluate the building for ?immediately dangerous to life and health' conditions ? combustible gas, low oxygen, high CO2, any kind of volatile organics.      They would do that recon and report back to me. There were a lot      of natural gas leaks, but there was only one building that we      never got into (the Deutsche Bank building adjacent to the WTC      site) because of structural concerns and because of gas leaks."

<p>Top of Page

<p>EPA Administrator Whitman toured Ground Zero on September 13, accompanied      by Muszynski. "There was a concern that one or two of the      buildings had the danger of collapsing," Muszynski recalls. "As we were walking down there they had one or two alarms.      Can you imagine evacuating and saying, no, it's OK to go back      to work, and you go back to work and the alarm goes off and you      have to evacuate again? To think about the courage people had      to go back in those conditions and still search for survivors,      it was incredible."

<p>Over the first week of the response, as police, fire fighters,      and rescue workers searched for victims amid the rubble and battled      the fires that would burn for months within the pile, EPA expanded      its ambient environmental monitoring activities, increasing both      the number of fixed stations and the contaminants to be probed.      On-scene coordinators were also assigned to monitor conditions      at the Fresh Kills landfill, where debris from the World Trade      Center was transported for sifting by federal crime investigators,      including members of EPA's Criminal Investigation Division.

<p>Heavy dust accumulation

<p>Larger Picture

<p>The chief purpose of EPA's monitoring was to assess health risks      for the workers at Ground Zero and for those who would soon return      to work and live in lower Manhattan. EPA labs and private labs      under contract to the Agency analyzed air and dust samples for      asbestos and a host of other contaminants, then turned the data      over to an interagency team of scientists. The team included Dore      LaPosta, then acting director of the region's Division of Environmental      Science and Assessment (DESA).

<p>The challenge was to determine at which level each contaminant      posed a health concern, so that the data could be reported meaningfully.      Health-based benchmarks had never been established for many contaminants      being monitored.

<p>For example, no outdoor standards existed for airborne asbestos      exposure, which more commonly occurs indoors. Asbestos, a heat-resistant      material used as fire-proofing in part of the World Trade Center,      is known to cause lung cancer and asbestosis. EPA turned to a      nationally accepted standard for asbestos that is based on long-term      indoor exposure: the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA)      standard of 70 structures per square millimeter, which is used      to determine whether children may re-enter a school building after      asbestos removal or abatement.

<p>"Once we got the data," says LaPosta, "we had to      start judging and evaluating it against whatever we came up with      as the best parameters. We had to work with the risk assessment      people and other people in the field to figure out, for instance,      whether the AHERA standard is the right standard and what does      that mean from a risk perspective? And what do we do about dioxin ? do we use a 30-year removal number, do we use a one-year      number, or do we use an OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)      number? These criteria issues became a data management and assessment      problem we had to work through."

<p>Sampling quickly extended from air and dust to water. After a      heavy rain prompted concerns that hazardous material from the      collapsed buildings was seeping into water supplies, EPA sampled      drinking water at 13 distribution points in New York City as well      as water pumped out of the Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH)      train tunnels that flooded after the collapse. Drinking water      sampling results showed no contamination and, in fact, the only      impact on water detected by EPA was a small amount of temporarily      elevated levels of asbestos and other compounds in storm-drain      runoff in the Hudson River.

<p>Top of Page

<p>Return to 290 Broadway

<p>As the financial district returned to operation, EPA continued      its vacuuming activities. Bulk dust sampling in and around Ground      Zero had indicated an uneven spread of asbestos-containing dust      in the area; the Agency decided to vacuum all public spaces throughout      lower Manhattan. Coordinated by OSC Dan Harkay, 10 vacuum trucks      removed dust from streets and sidewalks, open areas such as parks      and sandboxes, and federal building lobbies (including 290 Broadway)      into which response workers had carried dust on their shoes.

<p>With the lower Manhattan cleanup progressing quickly, EPA set      a return date of September 24 for employees working at 290 Broadway.      In the interim, Muszynski and Assistant Regional Administrator      Herb Barrack worked with EPA headquarters to restore the facility's      communications capabilities, which were lost when a major telephone      switching station was inundated with water following the World      Trade Center collapse. They also arranged through EPA headquarters      to provide trauma counseling for Region 2 employees, enlisting      a Massachusetts-based group with broad experience in counseling      disaster victims.

<p>"The question was," Barrack says, "should we bring      employees right to the regional office or transition by another      location first, where they wouldn't be immediately confronted      with going back to the horrors that they experienced? We reached      consensus that it was better to do it offsite."

<p>The voluntary session, held at the Grand Hyatt in mid-town Manhattan,      drew more than 600 employees ? about three-quarters of the      region's workforce. The trauma group also provided counselors      for EPA employees re-entering their lower Manhattan offices on      September 24.

<p>Top of Page

<p>Work at Ground Zero

<p>"The first day you came in," Norrell says about his      on-scene coordinator experience at Ground Zero, "you didn't      have any idea what to expect. For the first hour or so you found      yourself from time to time just staring at it, seeing and not      believing. It was enormous."

<p>OSCs assigned to Ground Zero carried out several functions: removing      hazardous materials; monitoring environmental conditions in and      around the site; establishing on-site wash stations to decontaminate      workers and trucks involved in the rescue and recovery; contributing      personal protection equipment to the rescue effort; and communicating      with recovery workers and other agencies about monitoring results      and their implications for health and safety.

<p>Solecki recalls climbing through gaps in and below the pile at      Ground Zero alongside search-and-rescue personnel, beginning the      third night. "I went through the hole every night. I worked      a lot with the USAR (Urban Search and Rescue) people, and I actually      went through with them looking for bodies. That wasn't my purpose ? my purpose was looking for hazmats ... I didn't really      find anything at first because there was so much rubble."

<p>Potentially hazardous material

<p>Larger Picture

<p>EPA on-scene coordinators pumped approximately 600,000 gallons      of oil from the World Trade Center sub-basements and removed a      host of other hazardous materials, such as dry cleaning fluids,      fire extinguishers, and underground fuel tanks. They also monitored      for Freon R-22 leaks from the trade center's enormous refrigeration      system, especially when city officials posed the possibility (later      disproved) that this particular form of Freon, when combusted,      would form the poison gas phosgene.

<p>Throughout EPA's response, asbestos monitoring remained a top      priority. Twice each day, OSCs collected samples from more than      20 different fixed continuous air monitoring locations in and      around Ground Zero. Of the more than 9,500 samples eventually      collected, only 21 measured above the 70-structures-per-square-millimeter      level of concern. Even those 21 samples did not reflect a significant      long-term health risk. Asbestos exposure generally becomes a health      concern when high concentrations of asbestos fibers are inhaled      over a long period. Illness is very unlikely to result from a      single, high-level exposure, or from a short period of exposure      to lower levels.

<p>