<h>SIGNIFICANT POINTS

<p>Employment is expected to continue to decline.

<p>Much steel production has shifted to the electric arc furnace, changing many jobs and enhancing opportunities for individuals with technical skills and training.

<p>NATURE OF THE INDUSTRY

<p>Few industries in the United States have changed as rapidly in recent years as the steel industry. As a result of new investment in equipment and worker training, this industry has gone from a seemingly moribund one, to one that leads the world in worker productivity and is the low cost producer for some types of steel. The U.S. steel industry still faces stiff competition, and employment is expected to continue to decline; but it is now in a more promising position to meet these challenges.

<p>With new investments have come fundamental changes in the nature of this industry. The most significant change in the American steel industry is the development of the electric arc furnace (EAF), sometimes called the "minimill", which converts scrap metal from many sources-such as bridges, refrigerators, and automobiles-to steel. The term "minimill" originated from the relatively smaller size of these mills when they first appeared, compared with traditional integrated mills. Today, many EAF's or minimills are actually larger than integrated mills producing steel from raw materials. The smaller capital outlay required to start and operate an EAF has helped drive its growth. Moreover, scrap metal is found in all parts of the country, so EAF's are not tied as closely to raw material deposits as integrated mills and can locate closer to consumers. EAF's now comprise almost half of American steel production and their share is expected to continue to grow in coming years.

<p>The growth of EAF's comes partly at the expense of integrated mills. Integrated mills produce iron in blast furnaces, from coal, iron ore, and limestone. The iron is then refined into steel, most commonly in basic oxygen furnaces. The steel produced by integrated mills generally is considered to be of higher quality than steel from EAF's, but because more steps are involved in the production process, it also is more costly. The initial step in the integrated mill process is to prepare coal for use in a blast furnace by converting it to coke. Coal is heated in coke ovens to remove impurities and to reduce it to nearly pure carbon. Because coke production is considered to be one of the dirtiest steps in production, many firms are looking for substitutes for coke in steelmaking.

<p>At the other end of the steel manufacturing process, semifinished steel from either EAF's or integrated mills is converted into finished products. Some of the goods produced in finishing mills are steel wire, pipe, bars, rods, and sheets. Products also may be coated with chemicals, paints, or other metals that give the steel desired characteristics for various industries and consumers. Also involved in steel manufacturing are firms that produce alloys, by adding materials like silicon and manganese to the steel. Varying the amounts of carbon and other elements contained in the final product can produce thousands of different types of steel, each with specific properties suited for a particular use.

<p>Increasing competition from abroad and in the domestic market has caused integrated and EAF producers to modernize. For workers, this often has meant learning new skills to operate sophisticated equipment. Competition also has resulted in increasing specialization of steel production, as various producers attempt to capture different niches in the market. With these changes has come a growing emphasis on flexibility and adaptability for both workers and equipment. As international and domestic competition mounts for U.S. steel producers, the nature of the industry is expected to continue to change in these directions.

<p>WORKING CONDITIONS

<p>Steel mills evoke images of strenuous, hot, and potentially dangerous work. While many dangerous and difficult jobs remain in the steel industry, modern equipment and facilities have helped to change this. The most strenuous tasks were among the first to be automated. For example, computer-controlled machinery helps to monitor and move iron and steel through the production processes, reducing the need for heavy labor. In some cases, workers now monitor and control the equipment from air-conditioned rooms.

<p>Nevertheless, large machinery and molten metal can be hazardous, unless safety procedures are observed. Hard hats, safety shoes, protective glasses, ear plugs, and protective clothing are required in most production areas.

<p>The expense of plant and machinery and significant production startup costs force most mills to operate around the clock. Workers averaged 44.6 hours per week in 1998, and only about 1.7 percent of workers are employed part time. Night and weekend shifts are common, as is overtime work during peak production periods. In 1998, 33.7 percent of all steel workers put in overtime.

<p>Cases of occupational injury and illness in the industry were 12.0 per 100 full-time workers in 1997, significantly higher than the 7.1 cases per 100 workers for the entire private sector and also higher than the 10.3 cases per 100 for all manufacturing. The highest injury rate in the steel industry-16.3-was found in steel pipes and tubes.

<p>EMPLOYMENT

<p>Employment in the steel industry declined to about 232,000 wage and salary jobs in 1998, less than half its 1980 level. The rate of decline, however, has slowed in recent years. The steel industry traditionally has been located in the eastern and Midwestern regions of the country, where iron ore, coal, or one of the other natural resources required for steel are found. Even today, about 50 percent of all steelworkers are employed in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana. The growth of EAF's, though, has allowed steel-making to spread to virtually all parts of the country. Large firms employ most workers in the steel industry. Over 9 out of 10 work in establishments employing at least 50 workers, and almost half work in establishments employing 1,000 or more persons (chart 1).

<p>OCCUPATIONS IN THE INDUSTRY

<p>Opportunities exist in a variety of occupations, but the majority of workers-79 percent-are employed in operator, fabricator, and laborer and precision production, craft, and repair occupations (table 1). About 17 percent work in managerial, professional, and administrative support occupations.

<p>Table 1. Employment of wage and salary workers in steel manufacturing by occupation, 1998 and projected change,        1998-2008

<p>(Employment in thousands)

<p>