<h>Editorial Review:

<p>Amazon.com:

<p>There's not one cougar to be found in 24's dynamic third season, and that's good news for everyone. After Jack Bauer's daughter Kim (Elisha Cuthbert) survived hokey hazards in season 2, she's now a full-time staffer at CTU, the L.A.-based intelligence beehive that's abuzz once again--three years after the events of 'Day Two'--when a vengeful terrorist threatens to release a lethal virus that could wipe out much of the country's population. Jack (Kiefer Sutherland) attempts to broker a deal for the virus involving drug kingpin Ramon Salazar (Joaquim de Almeida), whose operation Jack successfully infiltrated at high personal cost: to maintain his cover, he got hooked on heroin. That potentially deadly triangle--drug lords, addiction, and bioterrorism on a massive scale--sets the 24-hour clock ticking in a tight, action-packed plot involving a potential traitor in CTU's midst; the return of TV's greatest villainesses in Nina Meyers (Sarah Clarke) and former First Lady Sherry Palmer (Penny Johnson Jerald); a troubled romance between Kim and Jack's new partner Chase (James Badge Dale); and a scandalized reelection campaign by president David Palmer (Dennis Haysbert), who monitors CTU as they struggle to (literally) save the day.

<p>The intricately woven subplots that are 24's greatest strength are masterfully developed here, and character arcs are equally strong, especially among CTU staffers Tony (Carlos Bernard) and his wife Michelle (Reiko Aylesworth); CTU director Ryan Chappelle (Paul Schulze), who is season 2's tragic bargaining chip; and the annoying but well-intentioned Chloe O'Brian (Mary Lynn Rajskub), who makes pivotal contributions with by-the-book efficiency. It's 24's superior casting that overcomes the series' occasional lapses in credibility, and season 3's twists make marathon viewing a nerve-wracking delight. By the time it's all over, 24 once again leaves you gratefully exhausted. As always, Sutherland anchors the series in the role he was born to play. When Jack takes a private moment to release 24 hours' worth of near-fatal tension and psychological anguish, Sutherland proves that 24's dramatic priorities are as important as its thriller momentum. DVD extras include behind-the-scenes featurettes (about the prison break sequence, climactic F-18 Hornet air-strike, and real-life bio-weaponry) that pay welcome tribute to the series' hard-working crew, who create Emmy-worthy television under pressures as intense as 24 itself. --Jeff Shannon

<p>Customer Reviews

<p>Rating:

<p>- SOMEBODY SHOOT CHASE EDMUNDS!!!

<p>An outstanding series, 24 Season Three brings to the screen the parallel stories of mainly: Jack Bauer, Tony Almeda/Michelle Dessler, Kim Bauer/Chase Edmunds and President David Palmer/Wayne Palmer/Sherry Palmer among others.

<p>The setting is Los Angeles 3 years after the nuclear incident and over 4 years after the events on the day of the Democratic California Primary, and Federal (CTU) agent Jack Bauer is trying to thwart an attempt to release a deadly virus on the general population. As is ... Read More

<p>Rating:

<p>- Excellent!

<p>......the first time I was exposed to 24 was during the season premiere of Season Five. I was at a friends house and he was flipping through the channels and this was on. I loved the show from then on, but knew I would have to get caught up to know what was going on. I never watched an episode again for a long time (because I always worked when it was on). Recently one of my friends was telling me how great a show 24 is, and a store had the Seasons 1-4 on sale for $16, so I decided, why the hell not. ... Read More

<p>Rating:

<p>- A Great Collection of Episodes

<p>24 season three is plentiful with plot nice twists and turns, many of which end up as a great series. This aspect proves to be both a strength and a weakness. Watching the entire season in such a brief period of time, I noticed how it is clearly divided between two stories, while the plot twists proved to be natural and compelling during the first story. Regardless of any flaws, 24-season Three is the best television series I have ever seen. Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer instantly stands out as a great ... Read More

<p>Rating:

<p>- It's great show,buy all 4 right now thats how good it is

<p>a great show like 24 you don't know what to expect. The things I expect with this show is suspence, action, an intence fast paced roller coaster, plot twists, and thrills. Fortunately I get all five in this hit show. But what isn't expected in these intence four rounds of 24 hours? The kind of suspence, action, the type of intence fast paced roller coaster, the types of plot twists and thrills. Unfortunately for Jack Bauer once the clock starts to tick his 24 hour nightmare begins. 24 is a hard hitting show. ... Read More

<p>Rating:

<p>- Good but not as good as Seasons one & two.

<p>The show itself is addictive and it is difficult to stop watching until you've seen all 24 episodes.  I give it four stars only because it is not quite as good as seasons one and two.  However, I will buy seasons four and five and I would recommend this without qualification for any action and suspense fan.

<p>Samuel J. OrrIII

<p>