<h>June 1st, 2004 at 3:49 am

<p>Speaking as one who “sold out” and left particle physics to to work in Wall Street (the City of London, actually) - I feel it my duty to correct the bleak picture painted earlier of this career path. First off, if you choose to go into trading as did former string theorists Kelly Kirklin and Paul Miron then you can make a lot of money. I don’t know the exact score with these two, but my guess is that they both have enough to retire. Kelly is now a post-doc at Cambridge. Whether he is paying for himself, or denying some much more deserving youngster by holding this post I do not know, but the point is that with plenty of money in the bank, he is now able to do what he wants, which is physics - a bit like the “gentleman scientists” of old, like Lord Rayleigh. Personally, I never went into trading, mainly because I find software far more interesting, but having said that, although I have not done nearly as well as these two, I nonetheless was able to pay off my mortgage about two years ago.

<p>Some basic points that all physicists thinking of making this transition ought to be aware of:

<p>= There is a lot of interesting mathematical work to be done in the Finance world.

<p>= The route from science PhD to quantitative analyst in an investment bank is well-trodden & you will not have to explain or justify yourself. Mathematical skills are valued.

<p>JC

<p>June 1st, 2004 at 10:46 am

<p>Chris,

<p>Perhaps it was the folks I was speaking with over the years.  These old colleagues in particular ended up quitting Wall St. after 6 or 7 years, after getting sick and tired of trading or writing computer code that priced derivatives securities.  I never asked them specifically what they defined as “burnout” in their line of work.  My trading friends were always complaining about their work related stress, such as their telephone ringing every 30 seconds and having to keep track of information simultaneously on 5 or 6 computer screens all day.  The friends who did the computer derivatives calculations stuff had less complaints, other than many of them finding their work boring and/or not very interesting after awhile.  In some ways I got the sense they felt their work started to become “routine” or a “chore” to them, and the initial “excitement” was gone for the most part.

<p>Whether these folks chose the “wrong” profession to go into, I don’t know for sure.  Some thought the money would keep them happy, but in the longer term it didn’t.  Others I suspect saw the money as a “means to an end”, where they were able to make a large enough fortune to “retire” and do whatever they wanted afterwards with the rest of their life.

<p>Certainly none of them had any complaints about the money they were making. Every one of them were able to pay off all their student loan debts, as well as a large portion of their mortgages if they   lived outside of Manhattan.

<p>I have not kept contact with any of these old friends and colleagues over the last few years.  So I don’t know what they’re thinking these days, or if they changed their minds about what they regard as “burnout”.  A few folks I’m aware of went back to writing particle and/or string papers while others literally “disappeared” without a trace.

<p>erinj

<p>June 1st, 2004 at 2:53 pm

<p>Hello Chris,

<p>I made two serious attempts to gain employment in the City (of London, banking and finance sector), about two years apart, and came up against a brick wall on both occasions - once as a new theoretical physics PhD, and once as a recent high energy physics post-doc. Despite advice to the contrary, I found it impossible to gain work as a junior `quant’ (quantitative analyst).

<p>I contacted many banks and finance firms, got advice from an economics university lecturer who was a former `quant’ team member, and read up on as much financial mathematics and economics as I could. I couldn’t even secure an interview! My CV was listed on quite a few specialist finance employment agencies, and I could get nothing. I was, and still am, baffled by the lack of interest my skills, which I assumed were valued by the finance sector, brought me.

<p>After asking for feedback about this, I was told by employment agencies - who relayed what quant team leaders told me about my applications - that the reasons I was never shortlisted were: lack of experience in the financial world, too many other PhDs applications, and that my programming skills were not as extensive as other applicants. Well, if they wanted computer programmers, why did they give the impression that they wanted theoretical physicists - people who can work with and solve mathematical and modelling problems?

<p>I think that there are, and have been, too many applicants for finance sector jobs who don’t have enough programming skills, like myself, and who have also been misled about how much computer programming is required in these jobs. The aforementioned former quant told me that it would be about 75% of the time - is this true in your experience, Chris?

<p>My impression (and I’ve seen job ads asking for candidates in this direction) is that, in the post-9/11 era, combined with the economic down-turn, economics and financial mathematics PhDs are the candidates more likely to be successful, as well as graduates who have worked as part of summer programmes with banks (internships/work experience), and even computer science PhDs.

<p>So now I’ll never get to see the `front office’ or the trader’s floors, nor be paid the fabled big salaries and bonuses of the City.

<p>