<h>    Arron Russo On Coast-To-Coast AM           Aaron Russo on Lou Epton

<p>Very   Important:  On July 5th 2005 I filed a motion calling   for dismissal of my current criminal prosecution, because there are no laws establishing income tax "crimes".  To be thoroughly convinced of that, and also thoroughly   convinced that if there are criminals involved in income tax prosecutions,   it can only be the federal judges and the justice department lawyers   conducting such trials -    Read   these 12 pages .

<p>My motion also     provides the legal basis for filing criminal charges (either     pursuant to a criminal complaint or trying to get before a grand     jury and seeking indictments)

<p>against judges and US attorneys who participate in such     prosecutions, since in

<p>doing so they are actually engaged in criminal activity punishable     by law.

<p>The information in     here is simple and irrefutable and reveals that the government     extraction of income taxes which has not only destroyed practically     the Nation's entire industrial base, (3rd world status, here we     come!), but it was done pursuant to a tax that has been extracted     illegally and criminally - without practically anyone realizing it.

<p>These 12 pages explain it all .  Disseminate the information to as many people as possible, and try     and get it before you local newspaper.

<p>Be sure to read the government's   response .  Note that the government's response to all these issues   is "frivolous" however  the government's response is criminal for the   reasons given in my motion. Notice the government makes no attempt to   address the fact that they can't produce any delegation of authority from   the secretary of the treasury delegating to the IRS the authority to collect   income taxes or it's publication in the federal register.  This of   course demonstrates that the motto of the justice department which is "not   to gain a conviction, but to see justice done" is so much BS.  In   reality they represent a greater collection of criminals than the people   they prosecute.

<p>Here are the Exhibits from that go with my latest motion above , "Motion to Dismiss   since this court cannot have jurisdiction since the indictment fails to   charge an offense" filed July 5, 2005.

<p>The following will provide  extensive and irrefutable proof of how federal judges and the Dept. Of "Justice" lawyers  knowingly violate the law in order to convict defendants (Illegally) charged  with income tax crimes,  And why only mis-statements of  law ever "comes from the bench" at such trials.

<p> Since the income tax was repealed in 1954 when  Congress adopted the 1954 Code, it is clear that for 50 years federal judges in  conspiracy with U. S. Department of Injustice prosecutors have been illegally  and criminally prosecuting people for crimes that do not exist in connection  with a tax that nobody owes.

<p>Therefore, the fact that Judge Dawson along with  all of the Government’s prosecutors in this case have been engaged in  the same  criminal conduct should surprise no one – except  in this case, their criminal  conduct was so blatant and Judge Dawson’s charge to the jury was so outrageously  false in so many areas, that changes in the way criminal trials are conducted in  the U.S. of A. must inevitably follow from these disclosures.

<p>Pursuant to the Supreme Court’s  definitive  Cheek decision, 498 US at page 201,  the government in a tax prosecution has  a three- fold  burden,  it must prove:

<p>(1) The law imposed a duty upon the  defendant;

<p>(2) The defendant knew of that duty; and (3) he deliberately and  intentionally (willfully) violated that duty.  Notice that the issue of  “willfulness” only enters the picture in connection with the Government’s third  burden.   Obviously, a defendant has a right during the government’s  presentation of its case, to establish that no law imposed any such “duty” upon  him.  However to do that, the defendant must be able to raise the law itself and  show that no law imposed any such “duty’ upon him, and that the IRS employees  who testified for the Government, had no legal authority to do what they  testified they did.

<p>If the defendant can establish these claims during the  Government’s presentation of its case, and knock out all of the Government’s IRS  witnesses (which can easily be done by introducing into evidence their job  descriptions, the significance of section 7608, and the nature of their “pocket  commissions”)  the defendant would be entitled to a direct verdict of acquittal at the close of  the Government’s presentation of its case, without the defendant even having to  put on a defense, largely based on the issue of “willfulness. ”Therefore, how did Judge Dawson prevent me from  proving that no income tax law imposed a “duty” upon me, and that I knew of such  a “duty” – thereby sparing the government the need of having to prove these  first two elements of its burden, while preventing me from proving that none of  the Government’s IRS witnesses had any legal authority to do what they testified  they did. Judge Dawson sought to accomplished these tasks in a variety of ways.

<p>The first way was to prevent me from bringing up the law itself, by continually  claiming that “the law will come from the bench. How could I prove that no “law” imposed any “duty” upon me (and therefore I  “knew” of  such a “duty”) if I could not bring up the law itself?    In fact  when I asked Judge Dawson, if the Government intended to put on a witness who  would testify that the law imposed a “duty” upon me to pay income taxes,  David Ignall, the Government’s lead prosecutor, specifically stated that the  Government had no such intention of doing so, but would rely on the Judge  Dawson’s jury instructions to establish these elements for the Government.   However, since I would never be able to cross-examine Judge Dawson concerning  his jury instructions, he would be free to misstate the law (he literally threw all law out the window as he misstated it at least two dozen times  – and such examples will follow) as he fabricated a “duty” that did not exist.

<p>Later, at a hearing (conducted outside the presence of the jury) involving his  proposed jury instructions,   I specifically pointed out to him how numerous of  his proposed jury instruction misstated the law - but he gave those instructions  anyway, although he did change a few, while he refused to give jury instructions  that correctly stated the law.   Since my objections and corrections were  recorded at that time, they will prove that Judge Dawson knew he was misstating  the law to the jury, if my objections are not edited out of the transcript.       

<p>Apart from already explaining why the actions of  Judge Dawson and the prosecutors constituted criminal violations of 18 U.S.C. 241  in the 12 page motion I filed on July 5, 2005 (and which is posted immediately  above this document) their criminal culpability was substantially extended at  trial and would now include the crime of obstruction of justice – as the  following will demonstrate.  

<p>1) Judge Dawson would not allow me  to bring up the law, especially when it would impeach the testimony of  government witnesses. For example:

<p>     a)  A government witness, with a very  impressive title, was introduced as being in charge of the frivolous penalty  program in the 9th Circuit area.   She testified that the IRS imposed  the $500 frivolous penalty based upon guidelines established by the legal  counsel for the IRS, and when the IRS received a tax return that fell within  those guidelines, they imposed the $500 frivolous penalty.  I objected to her  testimony as hearsay, since she was not the one who determined whether a return  was frivolous or not, and what she was told by the IRS District Counsel  constituted hearsay.

<p>I stated that it was the IRS District Counsel who should  be testifying concerning what constituted a “frivolous” return, since he was  apparently the one who made that determination and not the witness who was now  testifying.  But my objection was overruled.   When I cross-examined her, I  specifically asked her whether or not any IRS agent took specific responsibility  for imposing the frivolous penalty.   And she again elaborated on how the  penalty was imposed pursuant to guidelines set up by the IRS District Counsel.  Therefore, I again asked her if she was sure that the frivolous penalty was not  imposed by IRS employees taking specific responsibility for imposing the  penalty.  She  said “No,” that was not how it was done.  I then asked her if she was familiar  with Code section 6751 I forgot whether she said “Yes” or “No.” In any case I  asked her, “If you saw a copy of IR Code Section 6751, would that refresh your  recollection?” She must have said, “Yes,” since I now moved to admit Section  6751 into evidence.

<p>I handed a copy of section 6751 to the U.S. attorney who was  sitting right in back of me. He read it, but appeared to have a puzzled look  on his face, when he said, “No objection.” I then handed the document to the  clerk, so it could be marked as an Exhibit, and she handed it up to Judge  Dawson, who proceeded to read it.   He read:  “No penalty under this title shall  be assessed unless the initial determination of such assessment is personally  approved (in writing) by the immediate supervisor of the individual making such  determination or such higher level official as the Secretary may designate.”   Judge Dawson, of course, realized that section 6751 (which provided that a  document containing at least two signatures was required in order for the  frivolous penalty to be imposed) totally impeached the testimony of the  Government’s witness then sitting before him.  Therefore, he sought to save the  government’s witness from being totally discredited by saying:   “Well, courts  have held (of course, he never named what courts) that this provision is not  really binding on the IRS  (or words to that effect),   so this document is  irrelevant and will not be admitted.”

<p>So, Judge Dawson would not allow the  law, section 6751,  to be admitted, since it would allow me to use it to  discredit the entire testimony of this impressively titled,  government  witness.  Since she also stated (in order to establish her alleged credentials,  even though the government would not qualify her as an “expert”)  that she had testified extensively at both civil and criminal trials. It is,  therefore, apparent that at all such trials her testimony was in direct conflict  with the law – unfortunately defendants at such trials would probably be unaware  of that fact.             

<p> b)  One of the Government's first witnesses was  retired Special Agent Ted Wethje.  He is mentioned in the Federal Mafia on pages  221, 222, and 224 . The Government largely relied on his perjured testimony to  gain my indictment and conviction in 1985 and therefore sought to use this  experienced and unconscionable liar at this trial.  He had absolutely no legal  authority to testify at either my 1985 trial or at this trial, since he has no  more authority to enforce the payment of income taxes than the man in the moon.  He is precluded from doing so by his own job description (Exhibit A) and because  he falls into subsection (a) of provision 7608 (Exhibit C).   Any IRS agent who  claims he is legally authorized to carry a firearm must fall into subsection (a)  of section 7608, since agents who fall into subsection (b) are not authorized to  “carry firearms.”   So, if Special Agent Wethje was authorized to “carry  firearms” during his employment with the IRS, he could only have been authorized  to enforce the payment of liquor, tobacco, and firearms taxes and such other  taxes as fall within the provisions of subtitle E of the IR Code – and not  income taxes, which fall within subtitle A of the IR Code.  

<p>So when I cross-examined him, the first thing I  said to him was, “Isn’t it a fact Mr. Wethje, that when you worked at the IRS  you carried a firearm?”   The government immediately objected to the question  (probably citing “relevance”) and its objection was immediately sustained by  Judge Dawson in the following manner, “Sustained - move on.”  However, I tried  to argue that weather or not Wethje carried a firearm was relevant as to whether  or not he was authorized to give testimony at this trial since it involved  income taxes.  However, Judge Dawson would hear none of it.  He supposedly had  warned me that when he sustained an objection, I was not to argue any further  but had to “Move on.”  However, I was also under the impression, that one had a  right to argue the validity and necessity of the question you asked, before it  was ruled upon,  and in this case (as  well as in numerous other cases) Judge  Dawson ruled upon the Government’s objection without giving me an opportunity to  argue why the question was  relevant to my defense.

<p>Also I am hard of hearing,  and so I might not have heard him say “Sustained,” but believed I still had a  right to argue the validity of my question – and so might have raised arguments  after he had stated “Sustained.”   At such times Judge Dawson would bark,   “Sanction,” which meant I had just been held in contempt of court, which  carried a jail sentence that was double to that meted out by the previous  sanction.  Judge Dawson started the sanctions at one day in jail, which were  then doubled for each succeeding sanction.  I must have received at least a  dozen sanctions.  In any case, he also would not allow me to me bring up Wethje’s job description, which also showed that Wethje had no authority to  investigate anybody living within the continental U.S.A. in connection with  income taxes, and so he had no authority to be testifying at this trial.  In  this manner Judge Dawson knowingly allowed the Government to use witnesses  against me who he knew had absolutely no authority to testify at my trial.    

<p>C.  Another Government witness,  Revenue  Officer Luddie Talley testified that he was involved (at various times)  in seizing numerous items from me  including: an automobile, monies taken from  me which were being held for me at the Clark County Jail, and 100% of my monthly  Social Security benefit.  He had sent the Social Security Administration a  fraudulent, IRS notice-of- levy  (which he had no authority to send out, and  which is totally benign and can be immediately thrown into the nearest trash  can) on which he had added, in his own handwriting, “full levy”;  a term that  appears no place in  the law governing “notices-of-levy.”  

<p>       When I asked Talley, “Are you aware of IRS pocket commissions?,”  the  Government cried out, “Objection,” which Judge Dawson “Sustained” as usual.   However, had I been permitted to proceed with this line of questioning, it would  have proceeded as follows.  Talley would have had to answer, “Yes” to my initial  question. Based on that answer,  I  would then have said, “And they consist of  enforcement and non-enforcement commissions, do they not?”  And he would have  had to say, “Yes.”  And then I would have said, “And what kind of a pocket  commission do you have?”   And he would have had to say, “A non-enforcement  pocket commission.”   And then I would have said, “Therefore, you have no  enforcement authority with respect to income taxes, isn’t that correct?”  In  order not to commit perjury, he would have had to answer, “Correct.”  “Therefore,” I would have said, “you had no lawful authority to seize my  automobile, the money being held for me at the Clark County Jail, or my monthly  Social Security check, isn’t that correct?”   And he would have had to answer,  “Correct.”  And then I would have said, “So you are no better than an ordinary  thief, except you operate under color of law, isn’t that correct?” And he would  have had to answer, “Correct.”  Except I would have corrected him, by saying.  “No, you are worse than an ordinary thief. Ordinary thieves at least don’t have  the gall to pretend that their stealing is legal, and they, at least, take some  risk.  They don’t have federal judges and U.S. attorneys protecting them.  Because of the hypocrisy in your brand of thievery,  and because it receives the  protection of the courts and the DOJ,  it must be regarded as a lower form of  thievery then that committed by ordinary criminals.”   However, I never got the  chance to proceed along those lines, since I was prevented from doing so by  Judge Dawson.      

<p>     In addition, when I asked Talley, “When you  seize property do you do it legally or illegally?” he responded by saying, “I do  it legally.”  This laid the foundation for my next question, which was, “Did you  ever see a statute that allowed the IRS to seize property?” However, before he  could answer, the Government objected and Judge Dawson gave his usual  “Sustained.”   If Talley had said “Yes,” to that question, I would have handed  him the Code and asked him to show me the statute that allowed him to seize  property legally, and he would not have been able to find such a statute,  because it doesn’t exist.  If he said “No,” I would have asked, “Then how do  you know you seize property legally?”  So no matter how Talley  answered,  I  would have been able to expose the fact that IRS agents have no authority to  seize property.  But, again, the Government’s prosecutors and Judge Dawson  interceded in order to prevent me from proving that all IRS seizures are  illegal, and not provided for by law.

<p>    Further I produced a document sent out by the Social   Security Administration that showed that the seizure of Social Security   benefits by the IRS is  limited to 15% (assuming they have any seizure   authority at all, which they do not have.)  However based upon   erroneous representations made by the Government, Judge Dawson instructed   the jury that the law allowed the IRS to seize 100% of my monthly benefit.   That was dead wrong, but explaining it to the jury would have been too   complicated, besides I had a better way to do it.  I was calling as a   witness Dr. Raymond Hartman of Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania.

<p>    His involvement in the movement even predates mine  (See page 59 of “The Federal Mafia.”).  When he told me the IRS was taking 100%  of his Social Security, I provided him with information which he sent to the  Social Security Administration.   Shortly thereafter they sent him a refund of  approximately $9,000  and restored 100% of his monthly benefit.   Since I had to  supply Judge Dawson with an outline of what my witnesses were going to testify  about, he informed me that he would not permit Dr. Hartman to testify about  getting his Social Security benefits restored.  When I asked him why, he said  that such testimony had nothing to do with income taxes.   I am sure that the  fact that Dr.  Hartman’s  testimony would also refute what Judge Dawson had told  the jury concerning the IRS’s legal authority to seize 100% of my Social  Security benefits had nothing to do with his decision..  

<p>            (d) Along the same lines, the Government’s summary “expert,” IRS  Agent  Clinton Lowder testified extensively  concerning deposits to my bank accounts which he claimed revealed that  substantial amounts of money had been deposited to my “eight bank accounts”  in  connection with the years at issue.  When I had previously inquired about the relevance of all his testimony regarding  these bank deposits, the Government claimed that it was related to how much  “income” I had received during this period.  I said, no it didn’t.   I pointed  out that it merely indicated how much money I had deposited to my bank accounts  and nothing more,  and depositing money to ones bank account is not a crime –  nor had I been charged with any such crime.  Such deposits might be related to a  crime if I had been charged with money laundering, or selling products that were  illegal.  I further pointed out that such  bank deposits could  not be  considered as being indicative of the receipt of  “income” unless the Government  put on an “expert” in the law, who would testify (and be subject to  cross-examination) that deposits to ones bank accounts constituted the receipt  of “income” within the meaning of Code Section 61. Since the Government had not  put on any such “expert” witness (since they knew I would have eaten them up  alive) they could not legally claim that mere bank deposits constituted – to any degree-   the receipt of “income” within the meaning of Code  section 61.   But Judge Dawson (illegally) did so anyway.   

<p>            In addition, when I cross-examined Mr. Lowder  I asked him, “Isn’t  the purpose of your analysis of my bank deposits an attempt on your part to  estimate the amount of income taxes you believe I  omitted from the tax returns  I filed for the years at issue?”  I actually had to repeat that question three  or four times before I got a straight answer from him.   When he finally  admitted that was the purpose of his activity,  I asked:  “Isn’t it a fact that  section 6201(2) (A) gives the Secretary the authority to estimate the amount of  taxes that have been omitted to be paid by stamp, but no law  authorizes the Secretary (or the IRS) to estimate the amount of taxes that has  been omitted from an income tax return?”  “Objection! He is  raising the law, your Honor.”    “Sustained. Move on.”    “But your Honor, I  asked that question merely to show that the law does not allow Mr. Lowder to do  what he claims he was doing.” “Mr. Schiff: you have deliberately violated my  order that you are not to raise issues of law, nor argue with me when I sustain  a Government objection; therefore, you will be sanctioned for doing so.”     

<p>            Of  course, no law authorizes the IRS (nor the Government at  criminal tax trials) to attribute to anyone more in income taxes than what they  reported on their tax returns.  Therefore, seeking to pursue another tack, I  said, “Mr. Lowder, when you attempt to analyze a persons various sources of  income and possible deductions and seek to calculate a tax that is different  from what that taxpayer reported on his return, do you do that legally or  illegally?”  “I do it legally” he immediately replied.   I was therefore poised  for my follow up question. “Mr. Lawder, have you ever seen a statute that  authorized you to calculate a tax that is different from what a taxpayer  reported on his return?”   “Objection”  “Sustained” “ But your Honor, I was  only…..” Sanction. You are deliberately doing it again.”   

<p>In this way, Judge Dawson in criminal collusion  with the Government,  sought to prevent me from proving that no law authorized  either the IRS,  Secretary of the Treasury (or his delegate), or the Justice  Department in this prosecution,  to claim that I owed  more in income taxes than  what I had reported on my “zero” returns for all of the years at issue.    

<p>(f)  Therefore,  during the  presentation of its case the Government did not put on one witness who would  testify that I had any “income” or income tax “liability” for any of the years  at issue, or that anything (not one word, sentence, or phrase)  in any of my  books and tapes (including my “zero” return) violated any law or encouraged  anyone to violate any law – though such allegations were contained throughout  the indictment.  And though they had undercover agents at both of my last  seminars (a two day seminar held in Las Vegas and a one day Seminar held in New  York City) they played no excerpts from either seminar as showing I had  advocated violations of law at either seminar – though such allegations were  contained in indictment. [6]   And no less than  six  government witnesses testified that they could find no  law  that made them “liable” for income taxes,  or required them “to pay” income  taxes, and at least four of them testified that they believed “income,” within  the meaning of the IR Code,  meant  “corporate profit.”  In addition,  all three  of my former employees who were witnesses for the prosecution testified that at no time did they, nor any of my other employees, ever  believe that any of the material sold and sent out by Freedom Books  encouraged  anyone to violate any law,  nor did I ever give them any reason to believe that  I did  not hold my beliefs on taxes other than  sincerely and honestly.   In  short,  the Government did not present a scintilla of evidence to support any of  allegations contained in its indictment and we  should have gotten a direct  verdict of acquittal at the close of the government’s case. 

<p>HOW JUDGE DAWSON SOUGHT TO  OBSTRUCT JUSTICE BY PREVENTING  ME FROM PUTTING ON A DEFENSE

<p>            Judge Dawson sought to prevent me from putting on an effective  defense, by:

<p>(1)   preventing me from calling  witnesses whose testimony was crucial to my defense;

<p>(2)   preventing me from testifying in  the most effective manner;

<p>(3)   by blatantly misstating the law in  his jury instructions, and

<p>(4)   by refusing to give a proper jury  instruction on the meaning of “income” and by refusing to give a jury  instruction that was favorable to my defense.   

<p> The fact that Judge Dawson would actually prevent me from calling witnesses  whose testimony was material to my defense was totally shocking to many of those  who attended my trial, as well as the witnesses who would not be allowed to  testify in the manner we had intended.   For example, a key  theme that was  repeated throughout the indictment was that I had prepared “false and fraudulent  documents” and gave tax advice to people which I “well knew and believed” was  false.   Such claims made to the grand jury D.O.J. prosecutors knew were false,  but they wanted to get an in indictment and didn’t care how many lies they had  to tell to the grand jury to get it.   Proof of this is that at trial, no  government witness testified that anything I said or wrote about was untrue –  let alone that I believed it was untrue   

<p>At  trial, I called as an adverse witness Special Agent  Sam Holland, who was the  man most responsible for generating the indictment.  He was the one who  illegally got the search warrant which was supported by his sealed affidavit  that accused me of everything but kidnapping the Lindberg baby.  In his sealed  affidavit Mr. Holland accused me of filing “false and fraudulent income tax  returns,” and of “encouraging” others to do the same, and  “instructing” and  “assisting” others to file…fraudulent Forms W-4.”  In The Federal Mafia  I explain how to do both.  So, if my instruction were false, that  could easily  be established by turning to where such documents are discussed in The  Federal Mafia.    However, when I called Sam Holland to the stand as an  adverse witness and   I asked him if he had read The Federal Mafia,  he said “No.” I had to ask him that question before I could ask him any question  about that book.  If he had answered “yes,” my next question would have been,  “Can you turn to any statement in that book that misstates the law or encourages  anyone to violate the law?”  However, I couldn’t ask him that question, because  he now claimed  he had never read that book!    Here is the  Government’s lead investigator supposedly gathering evidence to support all of  the charges in the indictment,  and he claims not to have read a book of mine  that the Government enjoined me from selling because it promoted violations of  our tax laws – and he claims not to have that book??!!!  He undoubtedly poured over it, but  couldn’t find anything in it that was untrue  or encouraged people to violate the law.  Therefore, he had to give that absurd  and unbelievable answer in order to avoid his total embarrassment if he were  forced to answer what he knew was going to be my follow up question.   

<p>In  addition while he was on the witness stand I place a “zero” return in front of  him and asked him to identify one statement on it that was false, and he was  unable to do so.  I believe the Government objected to my even asking him to  so. 

<p>The point is, a claim that is fundamental to  the government’s entire case was its claim that I am essentially a liar and a  charlatan and simply do not believe what I say, write and teach in connection  with income taxes.   To refute such a claim, I was prepared to call no less than  five attorneys who have known me over the years and most of whom had represented  me in various matters in connection with my stand on income taxes.   All of them  were prepared to testify that overlooking the legal validity of my beliefs on  the income tax,  they all believed beyond any question that I held those  beliefs honestly and sincerely.  Their testimony alone would have knocked the  Governments case into a cocked hat.  But Judge Dawson would not let them  testify.  Since California attorney Noel Spaid had already flown in, I put her  on as a character witness, but told the other lawyers they need not show up,  since they would not be allowed to testify.

<p>Also Judge Dawson would not allow the following persons to testify concerning  how they relied on my material and how I relied on research and in formation  they supplied to me:

<p>1)     Former IRS Special Agent Joe  Bannister

<p>2)     Former  IRS Revenue Officer  John  Turner

<p>3)     Bob Schultz , Chairman of “We the  People”

<p>4)     The Government’s own clinical  psychologist, Danial S. Hayes, Ph.D. L.L.C.                 whose analysis of me  included the following:

<p>… the research and  documentation he believes to be in support of his beliefs, and the commitment and passion with  which he holds his beliefs to be true.  He appears to have extremely rigid, fixed, inflexible, doggedly, determined  opinions and beliefs that cannot be changed by others’ reasoning. And, in  this case, even punishment has not had a corrective impact in his thinking or  behaviors. He appears impervious to any suggestion that he reconsider his  conclusions or his actions, in part because of the thorough research  he has conducted which has yielded evidence and facts to support his  conclusions, coupled with the fact that he considers himself to be an  “expert” with knowledge that supersedes that of any other individual claiming to  have expertise in this subject area.

<p>Most people have beliefs that have a  greater degree of flexibility and openness to change than does Mr. Schiff.  Although some may have beliefs that parallel Mr. Schiff’s, they differ from him  in that they are unwilling to jeopardize their freedom and suffer the  consequences of their beliefs to the degree that Mr. Schiff has.

<p>As a result,  it would be almost impossible at this point in his life to persuade  him that he is wrong, particularly since he feels that there are few  if any individuals who could match the breath and depth of knowledge he  appears to have as a result of the time, effort, focus, and intellect he has  devoted to the subject.

<p>Any arguments against him are likely to be seen by  him as naïve and sophomoric, and he is likely to dismantle any such arguments  quickly and handily by quick reference to materials his opponent is unlikely to  have at the ready for consideration and rebuttal.

<p>He holds these beliefs with such conviction that even the severe consequences of incarceration for  the rest of his natural life fails to shake his resolve.  This  does tend to set him apart from the average individual…He adamantly feels that  he has discovered something that is very important to the American people  regarding this nation’s economic and taxation practices, and whereas others who  are not driven by a Mood Disorder might be more open minded to arguments, weigh  personal consequences and elect not to pursue their campaign, Irwin Schiff has  chosen a route fraught with significant and possible disastrous consequences.”

<p>            His analysis alone eliminated any claim of “willfulness” or that my  past convictions were “notice to me” that wiped out “willfulness” which is what  the Government continually repeated in its final argument to the jury.  Both the  prosecutors and Judge Dawson knew that Judge Hayes’s report made such a claim  totally spurious.  

<p>MORE TO FOLLOW:

<p>[1] The job description of Special Agents (Exhibit A) clearly reveals that    they have no authority to investigate the alleged income tax liabilities    of persons residing within the continental USA;  Section 7608 (Exhibit    B) reveals that the only IRS agents (subsection (b)) who might have    authority to enforce the payment of income taxes [which falls into    subtitle A] are those agents from the “Intelligence  Division of the IRS    whom the Secretary charges etc. etc. etc”; however, the public never    comes in contact with such agents;  while those agents whom the public    deals with, Special Agents and Revenue  Officers,  must fall into    section (a) and, therefore,  can  only have authority to enforce the    payment of  subtitle E  taxes, such as liquor, tobacco and firearms.

<p>With respect to “pocket commissions” (Exhibit C): the IRS issues two    types, “enforcement” and “non-enforcement”  commissions.  All IRS    seizures are done by Revenue Officers who are only issued  “non-enforcement” pocket commissions, which again  proves that they have    no legal authority to seize anything, such as:  bank accounts, wages,    automobiles, stock portfolios, etc. etc. etc., which they seize every    day.   Thus all IRS Revenue Officers are essentially thieves operating  under color of law  whose thievery is protected by their partners in    crime, the federal judiciary and  DOJ lawyers. 

<p>[2] However, as the following will show, only misstatements of law come from    the bench. 

<p>[3] Since I could not get expedited transcripts of  the actual testimony    (even though I was willing to pay extra for them) , these statements    represent my best recollection of what was actually testified to, since    I do not, as yet,  have actual transcripts.   

<p>[4]   The Government never qualifies any of its witnesses as “experts” in tax    law.   The Government does this deliberately, so that none of its    witnesses can be cross-examined on the law itself.   However, their    witnesses  continually testify about the law without appearing to do so    and without their being subject to cross-examination on the “laws” they    testify about.   The government accomplishes this in the following    manner.   Government witnesses continually refer to such things as:   “income,”  “liability,” “deficiencies,” “levies,” “seizures” as well as    “CDP hearings” “ books and records,”  “concealment”  and even the    failure of the defendant  “to cooperate with the IRS, ” as if the IRS    did all of these things  legally  and the defendant was legally obligated  and subject to what these    terms imply.

<p>However, all such terms involve a basis in law,  such as:  a statute (or the lack of a    statute) or, as in the case of “income,” a legal conclusion.  However, defendants are prevented from cross-examining Government    witnesses  concerning:  (1) their use of these terms; (2) the  legal basis of such  terms ;  and  (3) the substance of the  statutes in which these terms appear  – because both the    court and the Government will contend that since such witnesses  “have    not been qualified as  ‘experts’ in tax law, they cannot be    cross-examined on the law.”

<p>    In this manner, the Government    deliberately and disingenuously has created a situation where it is able    to use Government witnesses to casually (but effectively) testify about    the “law,” but make it impossible for defendants to impeach their  testimony by cross-examining them on the “laws” they raise and refer    to.   This diabolic scheme allows Government  witnesses to infer  that:

<p>(1) the actions and activities of the defendant are illegal (when they generally are not);

<p>(2) that the actions and activities of    the IRS are legal (when they generally are not);  and

<p>(3)    allows Government witnesses (as well as the prosecutor and the court    itself) to use such terms as  “income” and  “liability” against    defendants, when such terms cannot apply to defendants  on any    basis.     

<p>  It should be noted    that even in this case, the Government’s summary witness was  not    offered as an “expert” in tax law.  He was offered only as an “expert in    tax calculations, ” (whatever that means).  However, the Government    subsequently sought to sneak in his testimony as coming from an expert    in “income tax law.”  However, I prevented this from happening.  I am    sure the Government gets away with this at other tax    trials.                 

<p>[5] The Government sought  to mislead the jury concerning the purpose and    nature of my bank accounts – seeking to create the impression that I    used eight bank accounts to make my receipts less traceable.

<p>    Mr. Lowder continually referred to “transfers” between  my “eight bank    accounts.”  Actually I only had four accounts (plus my PILL account) at    any one time.  When  the IRS illegally seized my bank accounts with Bank    of America (and ATM withdrawals from my PILL account saved the day,    because it allowed me to pay my employees and other creditors)   I    opened up accounts with the Nevada  State Bank because their Deposit    Agreement said they would only turn over depositor funds “pursuant to    legal process” which eliminated IRS notices-of-levy (if their    differences were pointed out to them.)

<p>   However,  they have since    changed their Deposit Agreement to  make it more compatible for them to    illegally honor IRS notices -of -levy, which doing so, is still a    violation of Nevada State law.  In any case, two of the four accounts    were for the Freedom Foundation.  One account was interest bearing, the    other was not.   I kept funds not immediately needed in the interest    bearing account, and transferred funds to the non interest bearing    checking account as needed.  The two accounts I had for Freedom Books    consisted of a merchant account and my general checking account.  The    merchant account is where credit card receipts are automatically    deposited by the company handling those funds, while checks and other    receipts are deposited directly into the checking account.

<p>  So there was    nothing devious or shady about having these four accounts (or the eight    the Government kept referring to) as the Government sought to    depict.       

<p>[6] In addition, throughout the indictment I am accused of “knowing and    believing” that practically everything I teach and write about the    income tax I know to be false.  Can you believe it?

<p> 

<p>On April 26, 2005 Schiff filed a Motion to Dismiss ,    which the government Opposed on May 24 , 2005 to which Schiff Replied on May 27, 2005 .

<p>ALSO!    Read Irwin's     Appeal to the 9th Circuit of Judge Philip Pro's totally lawless granting of a Summary     Judgment to the government in connection with its $2.6 million civil     lawsuit - more proof of the corruption of federal courts (and     the criminal character of the DOJ) in civil as well as criminal matters. 

<p>For an excellent     condensation see this Las Vegas     Tribune article .

<p>I am immediately appealing this Injunction to the Supreme   Court to find out

<p>for sure if the 1st Amendment no longer exists in America.

<p> 

<p>And to be on the safe side and not risk incarceration for contempt, for allegedly violating the Court’s Order, I   am not selling any of my other informational packets and tapes until I can   get clarification from Judge George as to what information I can, and can   not sell.    The Order itself is not   clear.  (Can you believe that an American citizen now has to worry about   things like this? But more on the Injunction further on, let me get to my   pending criminal trial and civil litigation) 

<p> 

<p>I believe that the pleadings and other documents now posted   to this web site make it pretty clear that the government has for over 50   years been illegally prosecuting people in connection with income taxes in   violation of:  (1) its taxing powers as contained in the Constitution; and   (2) the actual laws as contained in the Internal Revenue Code itself.  It   has been able to do this, I suggest, because of the duplicity and   lawlessness of the federal judiciary and the Department of Justice   In   short, I believe that if the American public knew what has been going on,   practically the entire federal judiciary would be behind bars, along with   practically every tax lawyer employed by the Justice Department.  However,   that is merely my opinion, you can read the following pleadings and make up   your own mind.    

<p> 

<p>Two weeks before my April 14, 2004 arraignment, I filed four   motions to dismiss all of the criminal charges filed against me.  The   Memoranda of Law I filed to support those motions explain why I concluded   that federal district courts lacked subject matter jurisdiction to prosecute   me (or anyone else) for  alleged income tax crimes,  because: 

<p>