<h>Mark-up of goods to account for the cost of transport

<p> 

<p>This section describes the methods used in calculating programme costs as part of WHO-CHOICE. The first part discusses the theoretical approach for defining relevant costs. The second and third parts document the methods used to determine the amount of resource use and their prices. The last part elucidates a means of accounting for different coverage levels of an intervention.

<p>Conceptual Approach

<p>Observed prices or charges do not necessarily reflect economic value. Generally, the economic definition of costs should be used in cost valuation, not the accounting (or financial) definition. This is based on the concept of 'opportunity cost', i.e. the value forgone by not utilizing the same resource in its next best alternative use [ 11 , 12 ]. The concept implies that all resources consumed by an intervention should be valued, not just those constituting a budgetary line item.

<p>In collecting costs, several basic issues concerning the costing process arise. The following issues outline the approach used to determine costs.

<p>Joint or overhead costs

<p>Programme cost analysis to inform decisions at the sectoral level requires information on the costs of introducing each intervention singly and also in combination with other related interventions. This requires identifying all resources involved to establish and run each intervention, including the necessary overheads.

<p>The simplest way to identify intervention-specific overhead costs is to identify shared resources used by the different interventions and use joint costing rules or some basis of allocation related to the usage of the overhead item [ 8 ]. The percentage of time devoted to each individual intervention was used to allocate personnel costs and the share of equipment used. Similarly with buildings and vehicles, the proportion of intervention-specific utilization to total utilization was used [ 8 , 13 ]. This implies that the resources are divisible, or can be shared across interventions (e.g. it is feasible to use 0.2 vehicles for an individual intervention). This is appropriate since most resources can be shared across interventions and programmes, and particular types of personnel, transport, and buildings can be hired in the short term or rented out to other users. In theory, all costs related to a set of evaluated interventions could be allocated. However, WHO-CHOICE excludes two major types of 'ongoing' costs in this context. First, some of the costs of central administration are not included – those that are part of the overall planning and management of the health system that are unrelated to the development and implementation of particular interventions aimed at improving health. Second, the current level of education of health professionals is excluded; if the skills required to deliver an intervention are available in the country under study, training costs to develop those skills are not included in the programme costs since a reallocation of health system resources does not affect these costs.

<p>Capacity utilization

<p>The extent to which capital and labor are used can critically influences unit costs [ 5 , 8 ]. Capacity utilization is defined as the proportion of the total target workload time a resource is actually used; for example, a computer used 5 hours in a 10 hour work day has a capacity utilisation of 50%. In comparing the cost-effectiveness of interventions, it is important to ensure that the observed differences are due to the intrinsic characteristics of the intervention rather than the extent to which capital and labor have been utilized in the environment in which the interventions were evaluated. WHO-CHOICE seeks to inform policy-makers on the optimum mix of interventions if health resources could be reallocated. It is not useful to perform this analysis by analyzing some interventions that are delivered inefficiently and others delivered efficiently. Therefore, for this analysis we report the cost-effectiveness estimates of interventions that are done efficiently, using 80% capacity utilization as the norm. This is consistent with recommendations made in CEA guidelines and ensures the comparability of cost-effectiveness ratios across interventions and settings [ 8 , 9 ].

<p>Ingredients approach

<p>Rather than collecting data on total expenditures, the ingredients approach is used. The cost of any input to a production process is the product of the quantity used and the value (or price) of each unit. The ingredients approach is useful for many reasons, the most important are that it allows analysts and policy-makers to validate the assumptions used; judge whether the estimates presented can be applied to their settings; and, if necessary, change some of the parameters to replicate the analysis for their settings [ 3 , 13 , 14 ].

<p>Classification of costs

<p>Costs are classified according to three characteristics: phase of implementation of the intervention, organizational level where costs are incurred, and nature of costs. This can be classified in the following three categories, with primary classifications listed first:

<p>• Start-up and Post Start-up costs: Programmes incur different types of costs in the start-up and post-implementation phases. The definition of the start-up period is the time between the decision to implement an intervention and starting its delivery to the first beneficiary. Quantities are reported for the total time of the start-up period. If the start-up period is 18 months, the quantities used for the entire time are reported. Post start-up programme costs for the full period of implementation of the intervention were based on an estimate of the annual cost required to run the intervention in a typical post start-up year when the programme is fully implemented.

<p>• Central versus Lower Levels costs: Factor inputs are classified according to where in the administrative and organizational level of the health system they are used. In this analysis we collected cost data from three programme-cost levels: central, provincial and district levels, but the data can be easily adapted to the relevant administrative classification in different settings.

<p>• Recurrent versus Capital costs: Factor inputs are further classified into recurrent and capital items. Following standard practice, capital costs are annualized over the useful life of the factor input, i.e. the 'equivalent annual costs' are calculated.

<p>Discounting across time

<p>For country-specific analysis, the local rate of return on long-term government bonds would ideally be used as the social discount rate for costs. For our purposes, to allow comparability across regions, a 3 % discount rate was used as recommended by most guidelines [ 8 ].

<p>Total start-up costs of the programme were considered as a capital investment and annualized and discounted over the life of the programme. For country-specific analysis, the choice of the period over which start-up costs should be annualised would be made on a case by case basis, but to allow comparability for the sub regional analysis, 10 years was chosen as the useful life of a start-up period [ 3 ]. The sensitivity of the analysis to this assumption was explored in the individual intervention studies.

<p>Data on quantities

<p>In the period 2001–2, WHO-CHOICE invited regional expert teams representing countries from each of the 14 epidemiologic sub regions to gather the quantities of physical inputs (the ingredients) required for approximately 75 interventions using a standard tool (see Endnotes section, Note 1 for details of the data collection tools and procedures). Most of the ingredients were for specific interventions, but some were for generic cost components which could be used in a number of interventions – for example, the cost of training health workers on case management using different combinations of number of days, and number of participants.

<p>The data they provided were compiled and compared to form the basis of a set of costing sheets for the different activities covered by programme costs. Next, a list of required activities and the intensity of each activity was compiled for each intervention. For example, media outreach was classified into four intensities: extensive (daily or more radio and television emissions), moderate (weekly emissions), minimal (monthly emissions or less), and printed material only (for programmes which have some information distribution requirements). Further activities included basic administration, monitoring, evaluation, and supervision, passage of legislation, training, and law enforcement. Other activities relevant only to one or a few programmes were entered separately. Training was divided into the costs involved in setting-up and running a specific training session, and the costs of overseeing and administering a training programme. The former costs are considered to vary with the number of trainees and length of training, while the latter were considered a fixed cost needed to run any training programme, no matter how many trainees or the length of training. The use of this standardized format ensures that different programmes are valued consistently based on the activities needed. This, in turn, ensures comparability of results.

<p>Quantities were divided into fixed and variable costs. Fixed costs include those necessary to set up and run a programme no matter how many people are covered. Some examples of fixed cost include parts of the central administration, passage of legislation, and basic monitoring activities. Some examples of items that vary by the number of people covered include people delivering a service, the amount of storage space and shipment needed, supervision, and the production of printed information materials.

<p>The required quantities of inputs were based on the estimates by the regional expert teams. However, because there was missing data for some interventions in some regions, the quantities for the variable and fixed cost functions were standardized across regions for most interventions (this was done except in cases where difference between regions is clearly justifiable, such as random breath testing of motor vehicle drivers where significantly different traffic patterns across regions would result in very different needs for enforcement). Because of different sizes of countries within the various regions, variable costs obviously varied by region (this builds in economies of scale, where fixed costs are spread over populations of different sizes).

<p>The regional expert teams also estimated details such as the office supplies, equipment, and office space different staff members would consume in a year. Based on these assumptions, the quantities of utilities used and maintenance costs were also estimated (further details can be found at http://www.who.int/evidence/cea ). Within the broad categories outlined in the conceptual approach section, inputs were classified in the manner reported in Table 1 .

<p>Data on prices

<p>This analysis requires the unit prices used to reflect the economic cost of goods, and allow for inter-country comparison of costs of interventions. For this purpose, the world price level was chosen as the numeraire or price level [ 11 ], and a reference currency, i.e., the International Dollar (I$), was chosen for the presentation of the results at the international level. Costs in local country currency units were converted to international dollars using purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rates. A PPP exchange rate is the number of units of a country's currency required to buy the same amounts of goods and services in the domestic market of a reference country, in this case the United States. An international dollar is, therefore, a hypothetical currency that is used as a means of translating and comparing costs from one country to the other. Because published estimates of PPPs do not cover all 192 countries that are members of WHO, the PPP exchange rates used in this analysis were developed by WHO and are available on the WHO-CHOICE website.

<p>Prices for traded goods

<p>Traded goods are commodities that are available on the international market, and all countries can purchase them at an international market price. Since the international market price reflects the opportunity cost of using a good to the country, it is used as the price for traded goods, adjusted to include cost, insurance and freight (c.i.f.) for imported goods and free on board (f.o.b.) for exported goods.

<p>International prices were derived from price indexes compiled in WHO publications and catalogues of prices from firms and non-governmental organizations operating at an international level that excluded costs of shipment and taxes. These international values were placed in a common currency (year 2000 I$) using World Bank Gross Domestic Product (GDP) deflators, or, when GDP deflators were unavailable, Consumer Price Index deflators [ 15 ].

<p>Generally, for small items that can be bought in bulk, the lowest internationally listed price was selected. This assumes the existence of a basic health infrastructure, enabling the purchase of items in bulk. For larger items, a middle level price was selected to represent a "typical" price. In some cases, the price range for a good was too big to justify the use of a mid-level price. For example, a given model of a four-wheel-drive vehicle can range in price from US$15,000 to US$25,000. Thus, for vehicle prices, generators, and other large cost items, the regional expert teams were asked to provide the local price of goods excluding taxes and subsidies.

<p>The f.o.b. (free-on-board) price of exports includes the production cost, transport costs, local marketing costs and local port charges of the exporting country [ 16 ]. The c.i.f. (cost-insurance-freight) price excludes import duties and subsidies (transfer payments), and includes the selling price of the producing country, freight, insurance, and unloading charges. If a country imports the good, the costs of local transport and distribution (termed 'domestic margin') were added to the c.i.f. price in order to approximate the local opportunity cost [ 16 ]. Methods for calculating c.i.f./f.o.b. adjustments are discussed in the section on coverage levels.

<p>Prices for non-traded goods

<p>Prices of non-traded goods like labour vary across regions. The regional expert teams provided local prices for non-traded goods for reference countries in their regions. Where possible, supplementary information from other sources on country-specific prices of non-traded goods, such as the International Labour Organization (ILO) database on occupational salaries, was also used to determine a typical cost for the region as a whole.

<p>Coverage Levels

<p>As coverage expands into remote areas, the marginal costs of providing an intervention to each additional person will generally increase [ 17-19 ]. To account for the increasing marginal costs of transportation to more remote areas, the following methods were used to adjust costs for different levels of population coverage. Transportation costs consist of the cost of transporting goods to a country (c.i.f./f.o.b.) and transporting goods within a country (the domestic margin).

<p>Adjusting prices for traded goods

<p>The calculation of the cost of transportation was based on the only available study showing the percentage change in the price of a traded good based on the distance it travels between countries, the transportation infrastructure and the average GDP per capita of a country, and other variables relating to the availability of seaports, neighbouring trade partners, etc. [ 20 ]. For purposes of calculating the c.i.f./f.o.b. mark-up of goods, an infrastructure index was calculated and applied using the price elasticity coefficients reported in Lim?o and Venables [ 21 ]. Table 2 illustrates the results of this analysis for selected countries in different regions with the c.i.f./f.o.b. mark-up ranging from 1.16 (16% increase in price) in Denmark to 1.71 in Afghanistan, with a median mark-up of 1.28.

<p>The domestic margin was calculated based on a hexagon shaped regional distribution model [ 22 ]. Each hexagon was assumed to cover 80 square kilometres, approximating the area served by one health centre reflecting a circular area with a radius of 5 km [ 23 ]. The population of each hexagon was derived from Geographical Information System (GIS) data on the population density of a country. In this model, the population density of the most crowded 80 square kilometres is assumed to be at the centre of the country, with hexagons further from the centre having progressively lower population densities. Thus, in the case of Burkina Faso, 4% of the population is assumed to live in the central hexagon, while only 2% of the population is assumed to live in the adjacent hexagon.

<p>Each country is also divided into provinces and districts based on the number of provinces and districts reported by WHO databases. In cases where the number of secondary or tertiary administrative units was not certain, an average was taken from the available sources. The average size of a province or district was calculated by dividing the total area of a country by the number of provinces or districts, which were then incorporated into the hexagonal grid. A traded good was assumed to travel, on average, half the distance from the central hexagon to the centre of the most peripheral province, and then to the centre of a district. The Lim?o and Venables price elasticity for distance was then used with this calculated distance to derive the domestic margin. Since, in this model, the central areas are more crowded than outlying areas, a programme covering 50% of the population will have a proportionately lower mark-up than a programme covering 95% of the population. However, as shown in Table 2 , the domestic margin is a minor cost compared to the cost of initially transporting a good to the country.

<p>Impact on resource utilization

<p>When an intervention covers a larger part of the population, the resources required to run the intervention also increase. As coverage goes up, certain cost parameter values were increased as follows:

<p>• As indicated above, the hexagon shaped regional distribution model assumes a health centre for every 80 square kilometres of space. This implies that health centres may not always run at 80% capacity, since more remote areas may have a very low population density. Since costs of training of health care professionals are independent of population density, these costs – expressed as costs per capita – will increase as coverage levels increase

<p>• The number of provinces covered increases as coverage expands. Under the assumptions listed above, one or two provinces may contain 50% or more of the population. Thus, as coverage expands, the number of provinces covered will increase, but each new province covered will have fewer people. Since there are fixed costs associated with running a programme at the province level, this produces diseconomies of scale.

<p>• The distance travelled in a supervision visit increases. At the national level, this is calculated as the distance from the centre to the most remote province covered (the average distance would be half the distance from the center to the periphery; however, because supervision visits are assumed to be round trips, the full distance from the center to the periphery is used). The distance travelled for supervision visits within provinces is similarly calculated.

<p>• Thus, the number of programme staff involved in supervision activities needs to increase both in proportion to the increased distances covered and to account for the increased number of provinces. Each province was assumed to need an equal number of supervision visits.

<p>It is possible that salaries may be higher in very remote areas to give health personnel extra incentive to relocate to these areas. In the absence of data, this factor was not incorporated.

<p>Organising and using the data

<p>The predicted quantities of resources needed were multiplied by their respective prices to calculate the total programme costs for a ten-year period of implementation. These ten-year costs are calculated in year 2000 international dollars using a standard net present value formula [ 8 ].

<p>Validation

<p>Once the data had been collected and analysed, the accuracy of the data was verified. Where possible, previous costing or CE studies which included programme costs were used as a benchmark for comparison, but very few presented programme cost estimates using the ingredients approach (e.g. [ 24 ]). In addition, disease and public health experts or programme managers who are familiar with the particular interventions and settings for a number of diseases reviewed the final costing figures. In the cases where the estimates did not have face validity, controls were made to ensure that there had not been mistakes with coding, and discussions were held with the regional costing experts to confirm the basis of their quantity and price estimates.

<p>  Outline   Results

<p>