<h>Lax mercury rules threaten rich as well as poor

<p>Many environmental hazards seem perversely aimed at the poor. People in older houses with peeling paint are susceptible to lead poisoning; subsistence fishers pull PCB-laden fish out of industrial waterways. But a recent study in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives shows that middle- and upper-income women who eat large amounts of tuna and swordfish steaks are contaminated with mercury at rates up to ten times that of the population at large.

<p>It?s not only ahi-eating Atkins dieters who are at risk, though. Another new study, this one by the EPA, shows that one in every six women of childbearing age?twice as many as previously thought?now has potentially harmful amounts of mercury in her bloodstream, and that 630,000 children are born each year with blood mercury above the EPA?s safe level. A potent neurotoxin that is especially hazardous to developing fetuses and young children, mercury can impair intelligence and learning ability, and even lead to permanent brain damage.

<p>How is such widespread poisoning taking place? No one knows for sure, but a likely culprit is canned tuna, the most widely eaten fish in the United States. (Children consume twice as much canned tuna as any other fish.) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration rarely tests canned tuna at all, but nongovernmental groups have found shockingly high mercury levels, particularly in albacore, aka "white" tuna. A 44-pound child eating one six-ounce can of albacore per week would exceed the EPA?s safety standard by four times; a 132-pound woman by one and a half times. This March, the EPA and the FDA issued a strict new advisory, warning pregnant women, nursing mothers, women who may become pregnant, and young children not to eat shark, swordfish, king mackerel, or tilefish at all; to limit albacore to one meal per week; and closely watch local advisories about wild-caught fish.

<p>Simultaneously, however, the EPA was facilitating the continued dumping of large amounts of mercury into the atmosphere from coal-fired power plants. Until recently, these plants were expected to reduce their emissions by 90 percent within three years. But last December, at the power industry?s urging, the EPA proposed instead establishing a system of pollution permits that could be bought and sold between companies, but would take six years to achieve a 30 percent reduction. EPA staffers complained that they were told not to perform the usual scientific and economic analysis of the new proposal, portions of which were identical to recommendations from a utility-industry lobbying firm. According to the Washington Post, "At least a dozen paragraphs were lifted, sometimes verbatim, from . . . industry suggestions." ?Paul Rauber

<p>Fish Eater?s Guide

<p>Choosing what to fix for a fish fry is more complicated than it used to be, but there are plenty of resources to help you make a responsible, safe choice. First the big picture: Is the fish overharvested and endangered? To find out, see " Food for Thought " ( January/February ), or download the Monterey Bay Aquarium?s Seafood Watch Card at www.mbayaq.org/cr/seafoodwatch.asp .

<p>Next, is the fish safe to eat? Mercury is by far the most widespread seafood contaminant. Tilefish, swordfish, shark, albacore, and king mackerel all tend to be high in mercury. Lower-risk species include tilapia, wild Pacific salmon, sole, catfish, and clams. The Sea Turtle Restoration Project?s Web site allows you to calculate, based on serving size and your weight, the safety of any of 50 fish varieties that have been tested by the FDA: www.seaturtles.org/gotmercury.htm .

<p>Fish can also be contaminated by pesticides and other pollutants (see "Updates," above right). Environmental Defense has combined information from various consumption advisories into its "Seafood Selector": see www.environmentaldefense.org/tool.cfm?tool=seafood .

<p>