<h>Pricing policies

<p>Communication with consumers

<p>There are many more communication channels available today than there were before the rise of interactive and electronic media such as the internet and mobile telecommunications. Communication with consumers and other businesses can take place by mail, telephone, fax, text message (SMS), multimedia message (MMS), e-mail, instant messaging (IM), voice over IP (VoIP), internet chat rooms, web sites and bulletin boards, and other internet-based systems including video conferencing and meeting sharing systems such as the Microsoft Netmeeting service. Each has different cost implications to the business, and different perceived benefits to the consumer.

<p>Avoid being caught in a spam trap...

<p>But with each channel of communication comes a unique set of challenges: people don't like junk mail, or 'spam' (unsolicited commercial e-mail), or unsolicited sales telephone calls. They complain about faxes wasting paper, and they don't want their mobile phone invaded by irrelevant advertising text messages. They don't want to run up bandwidth bills for receiving unwanted MMS communications on their internet mobile phone, and they don't want their PC's instant messenger program popping up unwelcome advances from companies they've never dealt with. And the list goes on.

<p>But it's not all bad news, either! There are ways, means, laws, and ethical practices that cut through the communication barrier for all of these channels, allowing you to communicate and build relationships with existing customers and sales prospects alike. The report walks you through the many practical ways of making sure your e-mails don't get stopped, making your messages easier to read, and being consumer-friendly enough to have people want to read them. And the same goes for SMS, direct mail, advertising, inserts, radio, the web, call centres and even front-line employees talking to customers in-store.

<p>Sector specific insights

<p>Different sectors are viewing and approaching loyalty differently, and are different stages of development, both in business terms and in the minds of consumers. Moreover, there are regional, national, and international variations and forces at work which mean that a road-map to loyalty in your geographical areas of operation is all the more important. For example:

<p>Loyalty on the internet

<p>Building loyalty online is always going to be a challenge because of the ease with which consumers can find new suppliers and change their allegiances. There are challenges for those companies that choose the online loyalty path instead of a systematic programme of low pricing and discounts. Loyalty requires a relationship, and the ability for the programme's operator to collect high quality, accurate data about consumers and their preferences and spending habits. But many consumers, while they are willing to give accurate personal details in-store, or on a printed application form, are unwilling to give out personal details in the online environment. Part of this unwillingness is certainly attributable to the idea that the internet is not secure, and that it is too easy for personal information to be gathered, analysed, copied, sold, distributed, or abused.

<p>Another big problem still facing the internet at large is that it has traditionally been seen as a 'free for all' resource, and many internet users still believe that - with the exception of the most obvious online retailer - everything on the internet should be free of charge, without any ties or obligations, and without the need to identify yourself. Most don't realise that they are in fact leaving a massive electronic trail behind them when they browse the web, and mistakenly believe that anonymity is not only possible but that it should be the norm for internet usage.

<p>So, assuming the consumer is willing to trade their data (personal, behavioural, and transactional, for example) for points with an online store, the concept of online loyalty faces a major problem in itself. The market for any given product or service is very large because the internet is (generally speaking) fast, global, and convenient to use. Entire web sites have sprung up with the specific aim of getting the customer to shop around (such as shopping.com, kelkoo.co.uk, and Google's froogle.com), all of which make their comparisons based largely on price and availability rather than on service, loyalty programmes, or relationship benefits. While such sites are undoubtedly an excellent resource for consumers, online retailers will find it increasingly difficult to differentiate based on service or loyalty benefits.

<p>The internet isn't all bad news for the loyalty marketer either. Never in the history of marketing has communication with customers (both existing and potential) been so cheap, so flexible, so fast, or so easily monitored. An e-mail is currently one of the cheapest communication channels available to marketers, and one of the most flexible too: there are no print runs, and each and every e-mail (given the right database and IT infrastructure) can be personalised not only in terms of the customer's name but right down to the message's content, images and offers. E-mail is unlike traditional direct mail in that the marketer can tell almost immediately when a message could not be delivered, meaning that consumers with 'dead addresses' can be immediately swapped onto reclaim campaigns to try to re-acquire their current e-mail address and updated contact details.

<p> 

<p>Brand loyalty

<p>There would be no point in spending marketing dollars building brand awareness if customers don't buy the brand again after they've tried it the first time. Today's brand marketers all have the same aim: to encourage brand loyalty - the situation where consumers choose a brand over its competitors and private label equivalents because they want to.

<p>A good definition of brand loyalty is that given by Jan Hofmeyr and Butch Rice, in their book 'Commitment-Led Marketing': "Brand loyalty is the tendency of someone to buy a brand again and again because they prefer it over others."

<p>Research shows that the brand loyalty of customers has fallen steadily over the past two or three decades. Results vary, but it's probably fair to say that today's average consumer is only 75% to 85% as loyal as the consumer of the 1970s or 80s. So why did this happen? There are several reasons, just a few of which are:

<p>There is much more choice today: the number of products and brands within most categories has increased greatly.

<p>The number of advertisements seen by consumers daily has increased enormously, especially since new channels like the internet, email and SMS have arrived on the scene.

<p>Modern consumers are more sophisticated and more likely to think for themselves and to try different products.

<p>There is more comparative information available, on web sites and in consumer magazines and the national press.

<p>The standard of service (and of products) has in many cases improved to the stage where there is not much difference between brands.

<p>Price competition has increased.

<p>In a full chapter on Brand Loyalty we focus on the successes and techniques seen most recently, and also the problems facing brand marketers and how they can be overcome. We look closely at which groups of consumers are worth marketing to, and how much they're worth, along with some sector-specific branding ideas and research, market variations in brand loyalty, and tools that can be used for brand marketing. We've also taken the opportunity to focus on research and trends that reveal answers to common branding problems. With brand loyalty foremost in mind, it answers common branding questions such as:

<p>Which are the big brands, and why?

<p>What are the problems facing brand marketers?

<p>How can branding problems be overcome?

<p>Which groups of consumers are worth marketing to?

<p>What does sector-specific branding research reveal?

<p>What national variations are there in brand loyalty?

<p>What tools for brand marketing are available?

<p> 

<p>Business to Business loyalty programmes

<p>Business to business loyalty programmes and incentive schemes seem, on first consideration, to be a great idea: a way of encouraging one business to continue doing business with another. But they also come with their own pitfalls that don't occur in consumer-based loyalty programmes. For example:

<p>Is it ethical to reward a client's employees to make decisions based on personal gain?

<p>Who should be rewarded: the business owner, management, employees, the business itself, or all?

<p>Is the person who gets the benefits always the one who makes the actual purchase decisions?

<p>The list of problems grows or shrinks depending on the industry sector involved, and on how well the relationship between supplier and client is defined and controlled. For example, there is little point in a CPG manufacturer rewarding the product buying clerks at a supermarket's head office when the decisions on product range, quantity, and shelf space allocation are taken by others (such as marketing and merchandising managers). This represents a tightly controlled buying environment in which direct rewards for employees are fruitless.

<p>However, in a more flexible (and typically smaller) business environment, buyers often have authority over stock control, product range, quantities, and even merchandising arrangements. In these cases, a B2B loyalty programme that rewards the buyer would probably work - even if it stands on unsteady ethical ground.

<p>There is another situation where B2B loyalty schemes work very well: channel sales partner programmes. These are where a manufacturer directly rewards the sales staff of companies that resell its products. This kind of selling incentive is very constructive because it benefits both businesses equally, in terms of greater sales and profit. By generating strong engagement between channel partners' sales people and the products themselves, the resultant increase in product knowledge and familiarity means that a more authoritative line can be taken in the sales process when dealing with end users. A fine example of this kind of programme's success is the Indian networking specialist Nortel, which achieved 40% growth in channel sales after one year of running such a programme, for which we have provided a detailed case study in our B2B chapter.

<p> 

<p>Supermarket loyalty initiatives

<p>Supermarkets face intense competition, not only from other supermarkets but also from warehouse clubs, supercentres (like Wal-Mart) and convenience stores. When Sir John Cohen, founder of the UK-based Tesco empire, brought the idea back to the UK from the US soon after World War II, the model for supermarkets was to "pile it high and sell it cheap". Many of the original supermarkets were like glorified market stalls. Then came the concept of self service, and the distant ancestor of the modern supermarket was born.

<p>Today, leading supermarkets are among the most sophisticated retailers in the world. They lead most other sectors in customer data collection and analysis, in stock management, in level of customer service and in retail innovation. Metro Group in Germany has already started the technological charge with its Future Store ( www.future-store.org ) initiative, which automates just about everything a customer can see, do, or touch in the 'supermarket of the future'. As we predicted in The Loyalty Guide Volume I (the 2004 edition), supermarkets are leading the way.

<p>Which retailers led with customer segmentation based on purchases, with closely targeted offers to specific customers, with dedicated customer service desks, with designated parking spaces for mothers with small children, with umbrella service to the car on rainy days? In many cases, the supermarkets.

<p>In the report's chapter on Supermarkets we look at the dynamics of loyalty programmes in the supermarket sector, then in close detail at some of the leading programmes.

<p>With respect to customer retention strategies, supermarkets can be broadly divided into three groups:

<p>Those that rely on every-day low prices (EDLP) to keep their customers;

<p>Those that rely on loyalty programmes for best customer marketing;

<p>Those that rely on excellent service and ranges of products.

<p>Of course, there are many shades in this spectrum and some supermarket chains adopt all three methods to varying degrees.

<p> 

<p>Loyalty to other retailers

<p>In general retail, today's key need is to focus on what drives loyalty programmes, what customers actually prefer, and what the future is likely to bring. Most retailers accept that they need to know more about their customers, and that the knowledge should be centrally recorded so that it is available to employees when they need it.

<p>In this chapter we examine what makes consumers shop the way they do, what makes them choose one retailer over another, and illuminate the dynamics of loyalty programmes in general retail sector, looking in detail at some of the leading programmes, operators, and developments in the field. We also examine the effectiveness of loyalty programmes, and follow current and future shopping trends. Also highlighted are the many problems of customer retention strategy planning in the supermarket and general retail sectors.

<p>We have provided a great deal of coverage of retail loyalty programmes around the world in the main report itself, and have also created a reference directory of major loyalty programmes in all countries, broken down by sector (Appendix C).

<p> 

<p>Airlines and frequent flyer programmes

<p>The airline industry has been amazingly active over the past two years, with barely a day passing without a new programme, a new service initiative, a new redemption feature, or a new promotion springing up somewhere in the world.

<p>A lot of this activity has focused on adding value (such as extra travel benefits and personal luxuries) for the upper tiers of airline frequent flyer programmes. This is a good focus to keep, of course, because these frequent flyers are the most profitable customers.

<p>The higher classes of travel (business class, premium class, first class, and half a dozen other names describing non-economy classes) are so much becoming the focus of airlines' attention that there are now complete airlines devoted to first class or business class travel, without a single economy seat on their aircraft. This report's authors predict that this trend will increase, driving a widening wedge between airlines that carry economy passengers (for whom personal service can be expected to decline in line with decreasing prices) and those that carry business and luxury passengers (for whom personal service will increase thanks to the lower financial and staffing overheads caused by the loss of economy class).

<p>In the Airline chapter of the report we provide full details and reference for over 30 leading airlines and their frequent flyer programmes, including:

<p> · Air Berlin (Top Bonus)

<p> · Air France & KLM (Flying Blue)

<p> · Air New Zealand (Airpoints)

<p>