<h>Objective Will vs. Subjective Will

<p>By OBAM 6/12/99

<p>The normal and prevalent belief is that we, homosepiens, the human species, are at the top of the food chain. This can hardly be disputed. It is also a well established belief that we are of a higher intelligence than all other forms of life and given dominion over all other species by God himself.

<p>Our ?will? is thought to be for the most part independent as opposed to being a result of socialization. The common belief among the populous (mostly ignorant to even the basics of psychology) and even some social scientists is that even though environment plays a significant role in determining a person?s personality, character, morals, values, ethics, etc., that which will prevail over social indoctrinations is ?independent will?. I?m sure you?ve heard many times statements to the effect of, ?I understand he had a childhood of abuse, drugs, violence, poverty, etc., but he knew right from wrong, and he ?chose? to do wrong?. These are statements often made by prosecutors, victims and their families. You can even hear this sentiment voiced among those on the flip side of this equation - prisoners themselves. You also hear, ?I came up in the ghetto, too, but ?I? didn?t turn to drugs and crime.? Well, I respect their honesty if that?s indeed what it is, but it is derived from ignorance; ignorance of the dynamics of the mind; ignorance of human nature.

<p>Morals, values, and ethics, relatively, are not passed on through genes and are not a part of our ?mental wiring?. However, mental wiring does play a part in how sharp or dull we are in perception and cognition. Genetics and the quality of prenatal care can determine to a large degree the efficiency of our brain and nervous system, i.e., whether we perceive slowly or quickly; our ability to decipher and remember information; whether we have a dull character or an erratic, hyper character. All these things can be determined by the structure of our brain and nervous system and also by brain chemistry. These factors are for the most part independent of direct socialization, but they do not determine morals, values, and ethics. These are determined by socialization, i.e., family, home upbringing, community, school, media, church, traumatic experiences, etc.; all that enters the brain by way of the five senses.

<p>The mind is an extremely complex entity. Though we seem to live according to our conscious decisions, the subconscious mind is what dictates to our conscious mind, and the subconscious mind is constructed second by second, minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day, year by year from the ?intake? of outside stimuli via the five senses. The overwhelming majority of information that we absorb we absorb subconsciously (without being aware of it), nevertheless it is absorbed and becomes a part of our subconscious influencing our emotions, values, ethics, etc., hence, our conscious decisions. Take ethics in particular; the standard of what is right and just as distinct from wrong and evil. One may well know that certain activities are wrong ?according to the law and the mainstream moral standards?, but in his/her ?own community and culture? these activities are prevalent and accepted practices, and eventhough one knows that they are illegal and immoral, because of the manner in which they are portrayed, consciously and subliminally, the propensity for one to partake in these activities is much greater. There are many variations, and one rule doesn?t apply to each and every individual situation, but the only way you can miss my point is to be mentally deficient or either in extreme denial. Given different circumstances and a different upbringing, you could very well be just like the person you despise the most.

<p>For the sake of argument, let?s say that everyone does have an independent will. How then could you explain ones choosing to do wrong? Either they are bad by nurture or they are bad by nature. It?s as simple as that. There?s no other alternative or explanation. The opponents of my theory would have to argue that it is nature, because they are opposed to the theory of nurture (socialization) as a cause of one being bad, evil, a social menace, etc. Now, if a person is bad by nature as opposed to nurture, how can they be held accountable for their bad conduct? Think critically before attempting to answer this question if you?ve never ventured on these grounds before. If a person is indeed a bad or evil person, I personally do not believe that it is by nature. I stand on the theory of socialization. This is not a crutch, an excuse, a scapegoat, etc.; it?s a fact. No doubt, many misuse and abuse this theory as a scapegoat to further their personal interest taking away from the legitimacy of the argument when presented under serious circumstances.

<p>To put this issue of psychology into a political, revolutionary perspective, let me begin by stating that psychology is an integralcomponent of politics, revolutionary politics in particular. Governmental policy (politics) influences social norms and culture, and social norms and culture in turn influence governmental policy, but the former is the primary focus.

<p>Today in the U.S. we see the fanatical religious, right-wing blaming the so-called liberals for the country?s moral decay. In particular ?Newt? blamed the liberals for the mass murder committed by the two teens at Columbine Highschool in Colorado. On the one hand these hypocrites condemn ?big government? especially when it interferes with big business, but on the other hand they seek to repress and control every aspect of our personal lives. They seek to set the standards for proper family structure, family values, education, religion, responsible media, correct constitutional interpretation, etc. and condemn all other opinions.

<p>The same restrictions of personal freedoms that are in practice now in this country are the same restrictions of personal freedoms that this government was condemning so-called communist and socialist countries for ten, twenty, thirty years ago. Only here, they?re called ?social contracts?, i.e. anti-crime laws, war on drugs, gun safety and control, etc.

<p>The U.S supreme court recently ruled that it was unconstitutional to prohibit ?citizens? from hanging out on the streets simply because they appeared to be gang members. This has been in practice in Chicago since the early 90s. Eventhough it was ruled unconstitutional, you can believe they?ll come up with something just as repressive if not more so.

<p>As for their laissez faire (hands off big business) policy, you can bet that it?s not for the purpose of promoting equality in the free market. It is exclusively for the purpose of furthering the accumulation of wealth into the hands of a few - monopoly capitalism.

<p>The populous are blind to these facts, and even worse, many wouldn?t really care a great deal if they knew the reality of it all. The social institutions, i.e. media, educational system, religion, entertainment, etc. shape our ethics, values, etc. more now than ever, because they are becoming more and more intrusive into our personal lives. Many say you can?t legislate morals. I say that legislation impacts social institutions, and social institutions impact morals, but no amount of legislation can overwhelm or correct the effects of capitalism that have degraded all that is spiritually sound and life loving. It takes revolution.

<p>As I stated before, governmental policy, or lack there of, can influence social norms and culture. For instance, the government?s economic policy of laissez faire (allowing the market to proceed with little or no anti-trust protection) inevitably leads to the accumulation of the overwhelming majority of wealth and power into the hands of a small power elite and an ever increasing poverty class of despair creating a culture of crime, violence, drugs, cut-throat individualism, ignorance, etc. The government?s policy of refusing to prosecute clear cut cases of police brutality and corruption creates a sentiment towards the C.O.P. (colonial occupational personnel) and the state of untrustworthiness and vindictiveness to say the least, especially among poor people and people of color while in turn creating a sentiment towards the cops and state among the upper class and most whites of patriotic protectors. The government?s policy of misrepresenting history, especially in the academic and religious fields contributes to the cultural perception of white superiority and black inferiority. The governmental policies that give less opportunities to females, mainly economic opportunities, automatically reinforces the already established culture of sexism, female subservience and inferiority - patriarchy.

<p>Each of these examples is a part of the U.S. capitalist culture in large part as a result of governmental policy. These are major yet general examples, however the same ?cause and effect? principle applies to individual situations, but are connected to the general culture.

<p>It?s been said quite frequently that prisons are microcosms of that society at large. The highest rates per capita of crime, murder in particular, suicide, imprisonment are in the U.S., and it is the only developed, industrialized nation in the world that still has the death penalty, yet it is called the greatest democracy in the world. Well, let me say this: A democracy is only as strong as the people?s level of political consciousness. The people (proletariat) can not truly dictate if they do not truly overstand the science of society, politics and economics. They can only be dictatees; pawns in the game of the power elite, voting for illusions.

<p>You ask, ?how does all this relate to the title?? An unconscious person makes decisions from a subjective will that is controlled by those in control of that particular environment.

<p>The following is an analogy stated quite proficiently by Mr. Hoover:

<p>?Having a subjective will is like being in someone else?s dream. A dream in which you have no power to create the scenes or change them. Let?s imagine that the dream is about life and the dreamer is able to make the laws and change the laws or he can make ?new laws? to hold you in check if you begin to win in his game of life. He could make you rich and famous or he could make you a wino, drug addict or a criminal (according to his law). In his dream, you are used to his ends. Your actions would only be reactions that he could control, calculate and predict and when he has no more use for you, he could eliminate you from his dream. Or he may just decide to store you away in some sort of ?warehouse? for his future use. Or perhaps he will supply you with drugs and guns and let you smoke and shoot your way out of existence.? From the Blue Print

<p>In order for capitalism or any other type of repressive, corrupt system to persist and thrive, the mass majority of the people must be of a subjective will.

<p>As I stated earlier, a democracy is only as strong as the people?s level of consciousness. Democracy is synonymous with socialism, and in order for true socialism to exist, the people must be of an objective will which entails being conscious of society/environment and its ability to indoctrinate so they won?t be subject to that indoctrination. An objective will also entails the ability to shape the environment as opposed to being shaped by the environment. Now you may ask, ?why would I worry about being negatively indoctrinated if the system is socialist?? The answer: Eventhough a system may be socialist, in the interest of the populous, there is always a latent force lurking internally and/or externally seeking to overthrow the status quo. There are contradictions to everything. This is the law of dialectics. Hence, what is necessary to keep the forces of capitalism and other corrupt systems from overcoming socialism is not only a conscious people but a system that systematically instills consciousness in the people via the social institutions, i.e. education, religion, entertainment, etc. This is revolutionary scientific socialism.

<p>You can not disconnect an individual?s actions and thoughts from the society and culture at large, and you can not disconnect culture and society at large from governmental policy. What may appear to be an isolated incident may very well soon become an epidemic; hence know this: A people?s collective will is a direct result of the type of system under which those people live.

<p>True socialism - the objective will of a conscious people - is what we struggle for.

<p>In Global Solidarity,

<p>