<h>Current ACITS, July 2000,  Surviving the Next Virus Attack

<p>Surviving the Next Virus Attack

<p>?G. Morgan Watkins, Departmental Services

<p>Back in the spring of 1988, computer security was largely a matter of "Make    sure you lock the computer room door when you're done." Then a few rogue    programs called "viruses" began to appear on the West Coast, spreading    and replicating undercover from one computer to another and reaching the University    several months later. First was the "Pakistani Brain" virus that struck    UT Windows computers late that summer. Then the "Scores" virus attacked    Macintoshes across campus, leaving many machines unusable for days.

<p>In these two cases, UT had time to prepare a defense because the Internet highway    was still largely under construction, and viruses spread mostly via shared diskettes.    But despite early warnings, UT was still hit hard when the outbreak took place:    significant service interruptions occurred, it wasn't easy to stop, there were    no virus protection packages, and people didn't take the threat seriously.

<p>Morgan Watkins and Fantom, his guide dog

<p>Today, we have campus licenses for antivirus software, but we also have thousands    of computer viruses skulking worldwide. Unfortunately, people still don't take    the threat seriously enoughand the stakes are much higher. With millions of    business-critical computers linked to the Internet, a particularly malignant    virus could seriously damage the global economy in a single electronic blitzkrieg.

<p>The latest major attack came on May 5, when the "Love Bug" infected    Microsoft Outlook mail services and mailboxes across the world. Thousands of    infected e-mail messages were generated on campus, spreading a potential disaster    throughout the UT community.

<p>Although Asia and Europe had already been struck by the Love Bug during the    night, there were no official alerts to warn Americans. Even so, ACITS and many    departmental computer administrators reacted immediately. Within minutes, ACITS    personnel were phoning administrative and departmental contacts across campus,    letting them know of the attack. Since e-mail might be seen only after it was    too late, other staff posted signs in buildings and knocked on office doors.    Some departments shut down their servers; others isolated their local networks;    others braved out the attack but carefully reviewed their e-mail and refused    to open any attachments. Throughout the blitz, ACITS' central services remained    available while technical staff were busy stopping the influx of contaminated    attachments. The Help Desk was on hand to assist, and UT's home page posted    a prominent alert, directing people to useful information. Shortly after noon,    seminars were given on how to eradicate the Love Bug. A special team remained    on campus until late that night to help anyone who needed hands-on assistance.    Campus-wide recovery efforts went well. In part it was the skills of dedicated    staff across campus; in part it was luck.

<p>Fortunately, the Love Bug was rather innocuous, its destructive power mostly    limited to throwing away multimedia files and leaving droppings throughout system    folders. It did not trash hard disks, and it was relatively easy to recognize.    The Love Bug was not a terrorist act. But the next strike could well be.

<p>For IT Managers: Be Prepared

<p>We hope that computer users are finally aware of how vulnerable their electronic    assets really are. In less than 24 hours, a poorly designed and simple piece    of code caused $20 billion in damages. We must assume that virus creators are    also aware of the destructive power now at their fingertips. To protect the    University, we need better communication, organization, and preparation. The    comments and suggestions below are directed to IT managers on campus.

<p>Even careful planning won't give perfect security against attacksthere will    always be holes in our defenses. The key to surviving an electronic incursion    is to expect it. This includes planning ahead, reacting quickly, notifying the    right people, finding solutions, and cleaning up the mess. Afterwards, a post-mortem    should be done to learn how to react better the next time.

<p>Generally, your most precious computer asset is your data, and anything you    can do before hand to protect it could save you later. Keep your computers'    operating systems and antivirus solutions up-to-date, and, above all, have reliable,    daily backups using expertly managed servers. Making users responsible for system    updates and backups is a poor solution. Keeping data on servers makes it easier    to retrieve data from backups.

<p>Have a Plan . . .

<p>Know the location of all your departmental computing resources. If the department    has desktop management procedures, that is, specific hardware, operating systems,    and application suites that all members of a particular group use, it is much    easier to recover from a disaster. If user data is stored on file servers and    if standard system images are maintained, the road to normal operations is shorter.    And this is true whether the incident is a virus attack, a fire, flood, or theft.

<p>In the event of a security incident, such as a destructive virus, reaction    time is crucial. Before it happens, organize an Emergency Response Team (ERT).    You'll need an Incident Response Coordinator (IRC), a Communications Coordinator    (CC), and an Incident Technical Leader (ITL). Depending on the size of your    organization, you may need others to help make sure all the work gets done.    The IRC coordinates the actions of the team and takes responsibility for decisions.    The CC spreads the word and becomes the sole point of contact for the press.    The ITL gathers necessary technical information, puts together solutions, and    makes sure that the problem is cleaned up. Finally, members of the ERT must    be trained and must have materials to help them deal with unexpected problems.

<p>Get in Touch . . .

<p>An ERT requires a communications plan. Who needs to be contacted if a virus    or other attack is detected? The plan should have names, phone numbers, and    the reason for calling each person or unit. There will be no time to work through    the telephone book trying to hunt down phone numbers. Be sure ACITS is on the    list. We can share information with departments and users and help assess the    extent of the damage. Also, a current paper inventory listing of hardware and    software assets, stored in a prearranged, secure location, could be essential    during a severe attack.

<p>An ERT checklist of steps to be taken and a set of forms to document work is    also essential. One or more members of an ERT might not be available when a    problem happens, and someone else may need to fill the role. Other items, such    as preprinted instructions and signs for hallways should also be created and    stored. Periodic disaster drills will keep the procedures fresh. An ERT is of    little use if its members cannot be found. Departments should have emergency    procedures posted in a central location to make it easy to find responsible    parties at any time. Even if someone has agreed to wear a pager, there should    be alternate contacts.

<p>Diagnose the Problem . . .

<p>Don't try to diagnose a security incident alone. Gather what information you    can, but check with the Help Desk and other support sites, as well as within    your college, to make sure you have all the facts. If the Internet is still    accessible, check the UT home page to see if anything has been posted. Other    excellent sites that track these kinds of problems include:

<p>The National Infrastructure

<p>