<h>Statement for The Academy of Distinguished Teachers

<p>John M. Dolan

<p> 

<p>Bryan E. Dowd, BS, MS, PhD

<p>Bryan Dowd joined the Program in Human Rights and Medicine as Co-Chair in 2002. Professor Dowd is a health economist with a PhD in Public Policy Analysis from the University of Pennsylvania (1982), an MS in Urban Administration from Georgia State (1976), and BA in Architecture from the Georgia Institute of Technology (1972). He was named Mayo Professor of Public Health in 2002. He is also Director of Graduate Programs in Health Services Research and Policy in the School of Public Health. His work focuses on markets for health insurance and health care services, and the application of econometric methods to health services research problems. His recent research includes studies of insurance theory, causal modeling, health plan choice, tax policy, the cost-impact of a disability prevention program, risk adjustment, and equity in health care (access and financing). He has published over 80 articles in peer-reviewed journals. Additional interests include the relationship between scientific authority, accountability, and social values; ethical prescription and positive description; research ethics and informed consent; and the relationship between ‘reason’ and ‘faith.’

<p> 

<p>R obert P George, PhD, JD

<p>Robert P. George is Cyrus Hall McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence at Princeton University, where he teaches in the areas of philosophy of law, civil rights and liberties, and American constitutional law and theory. A graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard Law School, Professor George holds a doctorate in legal philosophy from Oxford University. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at Swarthmore and received a Knox Fellowship from Harvard for advanced study in law and philosophy at Oxford. He is author of Making Men Moral: Civil Liberties and Public Morality (1993) and In Defense of Natural Law (1999), and editor of Natural Law, Liberalism, and Morality (1996), The Autonomy of Law: Essays on Legal Positivism (1996), and Natural Law Theory: Contemporary Essays (1992), all published by Oxford University Press. In 2001 he published The Clash of Orthodoxies: Law, Religion and Morality in Crisis – a topic on which he lectured in 2005 at the University of Minnesota Law School.

<p>His articles and review essays have appeared in the Harvard Law Review, the Yale Law Journal, the Columbia Law Review, the University of Chicago Law Review, the Review of Politics, the Review of Metaphysics, Law and Philosophy, and the American Journal of Jurisprudence. Professor George is general editor of New Forum Books, a Princeton University Press series of books on law, culture, and politics. He serves on the Editorial Board of the American Journal of Jurisprudence, the Editorial Advisory Board of First Things, and the Board of Consulting Editors of Academic Questions. He is a member of the Boards of Directors of the Philosophy Education Society, the National Association of Scholars, and the Institute for American Values. He recently completed a six-year term as a presidential appointee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. He is a former Judicial Fellow at the Supreme Court of the United States, where he received the 1990 "Justice Tom C. Clark Award." His other honors include an American Bar Association "Silver Gavel Award" (1991) and the Federalist Society's "Paul Bator Award" (1994). He is listed on the Templeton Foundation's Honor Roll of Outstanding Professors. In addition to his academic work, Robert George is Of Counsel to the law firm of Robinson & McElwee. In 1994, he was counsel of record to Mother Teresa of Calcutta in her amicus curiae brief asking the Supreme Court to reconsider its ruling in Roe v. Wade.

<p>In 2002 Professor George was appointed to the President’s Council on Bioethics

<p> 

<p>Hymie Gordon, BSci, BM, BSurg, MD, FRCP

<p>Hymie Gordon, MD, FRCP, was co-founder and Co-Chair of the Program in Human Rights and Medicine at the University of Minnesota, Professor Emeritus of Medical Genetics at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, and founder and director of the Mayo Clinic's world renowned program in medical genetics. Born in the Union of South Africa on 20 September 1926, he attended the University of Cape Town, where he earned the degree of Bachelor of Sciences in medical sciences in 1946, the degrees of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery in 1950 and the degree of Doctor of Medicine in 1958. The subject of his doctoral thesis was: "The Regulation of the Human Serum-Cholesterol Level."

<p>He was an intern in the Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town in 1951, and in 1952 he was resident medical officer in the Stanger Government Hospital in Natal. He was medical registrar in the Addington Hospital in Durban, South Africa, from late 1952 to 1955. In 1955 and in 1956, he was senior medical registrar in the Groote Schuur Hospital, and from 1956 to 1958, he was clinical research bursar at the University of Cape Town. In 1958 and 1959 he was a fellow of the Forman Foundation and served as research associate in the Department of Cardiology at the Postgraduate Medical School and the Hammersmith Hospital in London, England. From 1959 to 1961, he was assistant physician in medicine and instructor in biostatistics at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine (in 1960 as an Eli Lilly foundation Fellow).

<p>In 1961, he returned to South Africa, where he became senior lecturer in the Department of Medicine of the University of Cape Town and senior physician in the Groote Schuur Hospital. He established a genetics teaching and research program at the University of Cape Town and a Comprehensive Care Clinic at the Groote Schuur Hospital. He was the medical officer of the Students' Health and Welfare Centres Organization, Founder and Chairman of the Medical History Club, and President of the University Cricket Club.

<p>He joined the Mayo Clinic on the 1st of May, 1969, and was charged with the task of developing a program in medical genetics. In January of 1972, he became the first chairman of the Department of Medical Genetics and the first Professor of Medical Genetics at the Mayo Medical School. In 1988, with G.E.M. Anscombe and John M Dolan, he founded the Program in Human Rights and Medicine at the University of Minnesota. With John M Dolan, from that date, he served as Co-Chair of the Program until his death.

<p>He wrote numerous articles and contributed to numerous publications on clinical medicine, biochemistry, epidemiology, genetics, and medical history. He was often an invited lecturer at the leading centers of learning around the planet, including the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, the University of Padua, the Sorbonne in Paris, the Royal Postgraduate Medical School and most of the other London Medical Schools, and the University of Oxford. He was the David Hsia lecturer at Loyola Medical School, the Morris Fishbein Lecturer at the University of Chicago, the Kelly lecturer at Albany Medical School, the McKenzie Professor at the University of Edmonton, and the Benedict Lecturer at the American Academy of Ophthalmologists and Otorhinolaryngologists.

<p>He was a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, the Royal College of Physicians of London, the Royal Society of Medicine, and the British Interplanetary Society; and he was a member of the Genetical Society of Great Britain. After emigrating to the United States of America in 1969, he was a member of the American society for Human Genetics, the American Association for the History of Medicine, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the Society of the Sigma-Xi. He served on the editorial boards of Postgraduate Medicine and of the American Journal of Medical Genetics. He was a member of the Medical Advisory Boards of the Committee for the Prevention of Jewish Genetic Diseases and of Human Life International. He was certified in Clinical Genetics by the American Board of Medical Genetics.

<p>Dr. Gordon retired from Clinical practice in 1989 and, in the years afterward, devoted himself to three principal pursuits. First, he completed several research projects in genetics. Second, as Consultant in the History of Medicine, he composed and delivered a vast, sixty-lecture, three year lecture series titled, "History for Physicians," which covered illness, disease, medicine, and human culture from Biblical times up through the Human Genome Project. Third, as Co-Chair of the Program in Human Rights and Medicine, he spent thousands of hours planning, participating in, and leading seminars, lecture series, and other educational programs. A high point of his work with the Program in Human Rights and Medicine during those years was a highly successful six-lecture series of lectures he delivered at the University of Minnesota, in academic year 1993-94, titled "The Task of Medicine: A Rich Past and an Open Future." Throughout the years following his retirement from clinical practice, he continued his life-long habit of travel to the centers of learning and art in Europe, Israel, and his native South Africa. Dr. Gordon died during a visit to South Africa, on the 5th of February in 1995.

<p> 

<p>E ulogy for Hymie Gordon, MD

<p>(Delivered by John M. Dolan on 20 September 1995 at a memorial service held at the University of Minnesota on what would have been Dr. Gordon's 69th birthday. An earlier version of this eulogy was read by the author at a memorial service at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, on 23 March 1995)

<p>It is a curious circumstance that I, the son of Christian parents, often think of a passage from The Koran when I think of Hymie Gordon, the son of a rabbi. The passage is this:

<p>They shall question you concerning what they should

<p>expend. Say "The abundance!"

<p>Hymie had an abundance undreamt of by most other men, and he spent it with exhilarating joy and generosity of spirit. Even his name held unsuspected riches.

<p>Names sometimes encode remarkable historical information. It is well known that the name "Pluto" was given to the ninth planet because of its mythological appropriateness. Less well known is the fact that astronomers at the Lowell Observatory chose the name because its first two letters, "PL," are the initials of Percival Lowell, who played a central role in the search for the ninth planet.

<p>You may have wondered how it came about that Hymie Gordon, a man of such aristocratic, even regal, bearing, was given the name, "Hymie," which sounds like a nickname. I never discussed the matter with him, but I think I know how it happened.

<p>The name "Hymie" sounds like a nickname because it is a nickname, a diminutive of the Hebrew "Chaim," which means life. Before the first World War, when Lithuania was a territory of Russia, there was a law forbidding Jewish parents from giving their children full Biblical names. A family that wanted to name a son "Abraham" was forced to use a truncated version like "Abram." Parents who wanted to name a son "Chaim" had to use the diminutive "Hymie."

<p>When Hymie Gordon was born in South Africa, his parents were free to give him any name they chose. I am convinced that they chose the name of a beloved departed family member who had been born in territory under the repressive Russian regime. If this is true, Hymie's name, like a tapestry containing a hidden figure, recalls both the repression under which his ancestors lived and the love and family loyalty by which his own family triumphed over that repression.

<p>Quite apart from its historical and familial meanings, the name "Hymie" is stunningly appropriate for our dear friend. Life indeed! I have been blessed in my friendships, but I have never had a friend who lived more vibrantly and joyously than Hymie Gordon. Nor have I ever known a man who defended and cherished innocent human life more passionately and powerfully.

<p>Nearly two decades ago, when he and I spoke on medical ethics at the then fledgling Mayo Medical School, a student asked Hymie Gordon a question about a topic already on its way to fashionability: death and dying. Hymie replied: "I am not interested in death. I do not study death. I am a doctor. I study life. My subject is life!" On the topic of living wills Hymie Gordon said: "We have no need for living wills. What we need is the will to live!" Concerning the prevalent use of the dehumanizing technical term "fetus" in current abortion debates he said: "I have been practicing medicine for more than forty years and have delivered babies on three continents and never once has a woman said to me 'Doctor, how is my fetus doing?'."

<p>Hymie Gordon was appalled by the movement to enlist physicians in the deliberate destruction of human beings through abortion and euthanasia. With Professor Elizabeth Anscombe and me, he founded the Program in Human Rights and Medicine at the University of Minnesota, a program dedicated to the serious study of problems in medical ethics and to the free exchange of ideas concerning their solution. Over the past seven-and-a-half years, along with several of us in the room, he gave thousands of hours of his time to the Program.

<p>A scrupulous attachment to fairness and the ideals of a university informed all his work in the Program and was conspicuously in evidence during the very last seminar over which he presided, just weeks before his death. The seminar was a presentation on assisted reproduction by a physician whose views on medical ethics were diametrically opposed to his own. So opposed that this physician casually referred to the selective aborting of multiple embryos as "dinking a pregnancy." Our aim that day was to learn the valuable clinical information the distinguished physician had to impart. Hymie Gordon uttered not a word in criticism of the cavalier references to abortion and treated our guest with cordial courtesy.

<p>Henri Cartier-Bresson once wrote:

<p>Photographing means recognizing in a single instant, a split second, both a fact, and the precise organization of visually perceived forms that embodies that fact. It means putting head, eye, and heart in one line of sight.

<p>That was Hymie Gordon exactly. Head, eye and heart in one line of sight. A superlative speaker sought after by universities, learned societies, and pro-life groups, he lectured at major centers of learning all over the planet. And his range of topics was as far flung as the venues at which he spoke. It was a dazzling experience to witness the orderly and rapid-fire marshaling of arguments by a mind whose store of knowledge ranged from Biblical archaeology to molecular biology. Bold, original, deeply learned, supremely self-confident, at times sharply polemical, always fresh and stimulating. Whether he was discussing the practices of the ancient Asclepiades or the Human Genome Project, his laser focus was the true Hippocratic end of medicine, the care and cherishing and protection of human life. Head, eye, and heart in one line of sight.

<p>Brisk, daring, precise in utterance, dazzlingly articulate, possessed of a devilish wit, always elegantly attired, gracious, indeed, courtly in manner, always generous of heart, Hymie Gordon showered us with more gifts than we can easily recount. For example, after today, who at the Mayo Clinic will be able to name a new disease or coin some new scientific terminology without an uneasy sense of having perhaps committed a linguistic transgression which Hymie would have swiftly and cheerfully put right? Without hearing him say: "This is a barbarism! You're joining a Latin stem with a Greek suffix!"

<p>A final word about our dear friend. He lectured as you all know with unparalleled and enthralling virtuosity. A small but significant episode illustrates the secret of his power as a lecturer and as a human being. A year ago, he delivered here a lecture that had been part of the magnificent, three-year, sixty-lecture cycle on medicine in history he had given at the Mayo Clinic. As anyone who heard the lecture on "Beethoven and Medical Practice in 19th Century Vienna" knows, it was powerful and profoundly moving. When he concluded, his audience of hundreds, which included scores of physicians, jumped up and delivered a thunderous ovation. Tears were streaming down the cheeks of more than a few people. A huge portrait of Beethoven was projected on the screen. Beethoven's majestic music could barely be heard over the thunderous applause. And Hymie Gordon stood with his back to the audience and applauded the enormous image of Beethoven. This was not a theatrical gesture. It told of the real power of his lectures. His wit, his astonishing verbal dexterity, his rapid-fire command of logic and fact, his capacity to instruct and amuse and delight were all subordinated to his subject. For Hymie Gordon, the subject, whether Beethoven's music or the structure of DNA, was the star.

<p>Our dear friend, who carried so much of human civilization in his own person now rests in the ancient city of Jerusalem, which has been the vessel of so much of the spiritual grace of human civilization. The man who was a living embodiment of the consecration of learning now rests in one of the ancient centers of learning and wisdom. If he could give us counsel in our present grief he might borrow a poet's words and say that more important than the fact that our hearts are broken is the fact that we have hearts. He might teach us that the scars about to form on our hearts will speak of more than the painful wound we now suffer: they will attest to the power that heals our hearts, the power to which our beloved friend and brother, whose very name means life, devoted his entire life and soul.

<p>- John M Dolan

<p> 

<p>Ja sper Hopkins, PhD, RN

<p>Jasper Hopkins received his B.A. degree in philosophy (1958) from Wheaton College, and his M.A. (1959) and Ph.D. (1963) degrees in philosophy from Harvard University. He is currently Professor of Philosophy at the University of Minnesota, where he first came in 1970. Prior thereto he taught at Case Institute of Technology (now Case-Western Reserve University) in Cleveland, at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, and at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. He spent three nonconsecutive years engaged in post-doctoral research in Paris at the Biblioth?que Nationale, two other years in Munich at the Grabmann Institut für Philosophie und Theologie des Mittelalters and the Monumenta Germaniae Historica, three months in Padua at the Istituto di Storia della Filosofia, and an academic year in Rome at the Pontificia Universit? Gregoriana. During the academic year 1981-82 he was a visiting professor of philosophy at the University of Graz (Austria); likewise, during the winter semester of 1986-87 he was a visiting professor at the University of Munich. In the visiting professorships he taught on Greek and Medieval philosophy, existentialism and freedom of the will, and epistemic problems in the philosophy of religion. Professor Hopkins is the author or translator of some twenty-four books in the field of Medieval philosophy. He has held research fellowships from the National Humanities Center, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the American Council of Learned Societies. He was elected to membership in the international wissenschaftlicher Beirat of the Cusanus Society in Germany. He is a consulting editor for Mitteilungen und Forschungsbeiträge der Cusanus-Gesellschaft. In May, 1990 Hopkins received an Associate of Applied Science degree from the College of St. Catherine/St. Mary's Campus (Minneapolis). He became a registered nurse in the same year and a certified emergency nurse in April, 1992. Thereafter he has also worked in post-coronary care units in telemetry (12-lead EKG monitoring) and in long-term care with patients suffering from head injury and neurological impairments. Not surprisingly, he teaches medical ethics in the Department of Philosophy and is member of the graduate faculty for the minor in biomedical ethics, and has directed dissertations on topics ranging from Heraclitus, to medical ethics, to the hermeneutics of history. Jasper Hopkins's webpage .

<p> 

<p>Konald A Prem, MD

<p>Konald Prem, MD, member of the Advisory Board of the Program in Human Rights and Medicine and former head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Minnesota, presented a paper on "Gynecological Oncology" at a three-day conference on "Optimizing Health for Older Persons: Practical Strategy" sponsored by the Department of Family Practice in St. Paul last June. During that same month he participated in a panel discussion titled "Ask the Doctor/Ask the Pharmacist: Concerns and Effects of Medications" at an international conference in St. Paul marking the silver anniversary of the Couple to Couple League, an organization he helped to found and whose medical board he has headed throughout its history. In May, Dr. Prem attended the annual meeting of the American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists in Denver, Colorado. In August he attended a board meeting of the National Commission on Human Life, Reproduction, and Rhythm whose purpose was to decide questions that needed resolution to enable the quarterly publication, Child and Family, to move its publication operations from Chicago to Pittsburgh.

<p> 

<p>Philip J Regal, AB, MA, PhD

<p>Phil Regal is professor of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior in the College of Biological Sciences at the University of Minnesota. He holds graduate faculty memberships in Conservation Biology, Ecology, Evolution and Behavior; Liberal Studies; Development Studies and Social Change; and Microbial Ecology. He also teaches courses on the confluence of science and ideology (e.g. reductionism), and on ecology and the history of ideas in the Department of Comparative Literature and Cultural Studies. After completing his Ph.D. in Zoology in 1968 at UCLA. Thereafter he was a postdoctoral trainee in Mental Health, National Institute of Mental Health, at the Brain Research Center at UCLA and Department of Neurosciences Laboratory at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography.

<p>His research interests include principles and examples of biological adaptation; the Bonobo (pan paniscus); genetic engineering, transgenic organisms, biosafety and risk assessment; the mind and brain as an adaptive system; the shaping of the modern mind and institutions (discussed in his 1990 book The Anatomy of Judgment); science policy; relationship between corporate interests, institutional ethics, and academic freedom; and chronobiology (conducting research in the Halberg Center for Chronobiology). His seminars and lectures presented at the Program in Human Rights and Medicine have discussed such topics as “The Bonobo,” “Genetic Engineering: Revising the Foundations of Ethics,” and academic freedom.

<p>Dr. Regal has served on international and national committees such as the UNESCO Committee on Man and the Biosphere, the Carnegie/AAAS “Project 2061: Education for a Changing Future,” the National Science Foundation Biological Centers Program Committee, the Sloan Foundation Molecular Evolution Program Committee, the Office of Technology Assessment Study of Non-indigenous Species in the U.S., serves on the Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution Editorial Board, the Humanist Institute (New York). In 1996 he was elected to the Cosmos Club in Washington, D.C. He also serves on the Board of Directors of CENSHARE (Center to Study Human-Animal Relationships and Environment) at the University of Minnesota and is an Advisory Board Member of the Program in Human Rights and Medicine.

<p>Return to top of page

<p>David Weissbrodt, BA, JD

<p>Professor David Weissbrodt, co-director of the Human Rights Center and member of the Advisory Board of the Program in Human Rights and Medicine, attended Columbia University and the London School of Economics. He received his J.D. degree from the University of California at Berkeley (Boalt Hall), where he was Note and Comment Editor of the California Law Review and a member of the Order of the Coif. After graduation, he clerked for Justice Matthew O. Tobriner of the California Supreme Court and practiced law with Covington & Burling. He joined the University of Minnesota Law School faculty in 1975 and has been a visiting professor at the Universite Jean Moulin in Lyon, France. Since joining the law faculty, he has written several books and numerous articles on international human rights law, immigration law, and other subjects. His present endowed chair (his third) is as Fredrickson and Byron Professor of Law.

<p>He has represented and served as an officer of several international human rights organizations including Amnesty International, the Center for Victims of Torture, Readers International, the International League for Human Rights. He was cofounder of the Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights. Additionally he is also a member of the American Law Institute, the American Society of International Law, and the editorial review boards of Human Rights Quarterly and the Netherlands Quarterly Human Rights.

<p>In the Spring of 1996, Professor Weissbrodt was elected by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights to serve a four-year term as the United States member of the U.N. Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. The Sub-Commission meets annually to authorize studies by its 26 members of such issues as human rights and disability, traditional health practices affecting the health of women and children, fair trial, and other topics. It is also responsible for responding to human rights violations in such countries as Burundi, Iran, Iraq, Rwanda, and Turkey. In addition to his work on the Sub-Commission, Prof. Weissbrodt is spent academic year 1996-97 on sabbatical with his family in Geneva, where he is teaching human rights law at the Graduate Institute of International Studies at the University of Geneva, Switzerland. In 2001 he was named chair of the U.N. Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights. He is the first U.S. citizen to head a U.N. human rights bodies since Eleanor Roosevelt. In 2002 he published with Anti-Slavery International the book Abolishing Slavery and Its Contemporary Forms, UN Doc. HR/Pub/02/4.

<p>In 2003 Professor Weissbrodt, with 25 committee members, drafted the “Norms on the Responsibilities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises with Regard to Human Rights” (U.N. Doc. E/CN.4/Sub.2/2003/12/Rev.2 (2003)). These norms concern the rights of workers, indigenous peoples, and the protection of children. The Norms articulate the responsibility of corporations not to benefit from war crimes, crimes against humanity, and other crimes against the human person including slave or coerced labor. Additional obligations concern provision of a safe and health working environment and remuneration commensurate with an adequate standard of living (contextually defined). Further obligations include not participating in bribery and other forms of corruption; adopt the precautionary principle with regard to product safety, promote physical and mental health, and observe local law and international agreements with regard to the environment, human rights (including freedom of conscience, religion and expression), public health and safety, bioethics and the precautionary principle toward realizing sustainable development.

<p>Finally, in 2004, he published, with Donald Marshall, The Common Law Process of Torts.

<p>