<h>The Top Ten Record Shop

<p>The Top Ten Record Shop

<p>Let me tell you about a truly unique place.

<p>The Top Ten Record Shop is located at 338 West Jefferson Blvd. Dallas, Texas.

<p>For those of you who have been to the Texas Theatre, the Top Ten is approximately one and a half blocks west of the theatre on the opposite side of the street near the corner of West Jefferson and South Bishop Ave.

<p>If the Top Ten were not somehow connected to the Kennedy Assassination it would still be very unique for other reasons that we will discuss in this article.

<p>Some of the locations that are connected to the events of the Kennedy Assassination have been demolished, other locations still exist but have been refurbished into something other than what they were in 1963, but very few locations have remained  the same as they were on November 22,1963 as the Top Ten has.

<p>I had been in the Top Ten on a few occasions, but I was always short on time and running late. I could not take the time to appreciate it for the treasure that it is.

<p>On my  November 1997 trip to Dallas to give a presentation at the JFK Lancer conference I met up with Ian Griggs and his group of friends. We proceeded on a tour of all the usual assassination locations. When we stopped at the Tippit Murder Scene, Ian asked me to show and talk about some of the pertinent locations. We eventually made our way down to the Texas Theatre. From that point I took a few members of Ian’s group to the Top Ten Record Shop. Everybody was amazed at how short of a distance this is.

<p>As we entered and looked around the store a very warm and friendly gentleman sitting at the counter struck up a conversation with me.  First we talked about music, he told me he was the owner of the shop and I complemented him on all the original and vintage decorations he had in the store.  He started to relate some of the history of the store, as he was doing this he told us that the phone that is mounted in-between his counters was the same telephone that J.D. Tippit had used just minutes before he was shot.

<p>Ian and I then told this kind gentleman that we were students of the Kennedy Assassination, the owner then introduced himself as Mike Polk and told us that he would gladly answer any questions that we had about the Shop. Since this meeting it has been my pleasure to speak and correspond with Mike on several occasions and I consider myself very fortunate to be friends with him. When we were in the shop he could not do enough for us. He was very generous with his time and told me that he would like copy of my “Car 10” article.

<p>Mike Polk behind the counter at the Top Ten Record Shop

<p>I have been a professional musician for 22 years and in that time I have met literally thousands of people in the music industry. I can honestly say that after getting to know Mike Polk that he is one of the most helpful, sincere, honest, humble, respectful and generous person I have ever met.

<p>In our many conversations that we have had since our meeting he has related some very interesting facts about the Top Ten. The arrangement of the counters and the telephone that J.D. Tippit used in the front part of the shop is exactly as it was on November 22, 1963 (see photograph at right, below).

<p>The nostalgic store decorations such as the RCA Victor clock, dog statues and broadcast microphone are all original and kept in excellent condition.

<p>Many famous recording artists have visited the Top Ten and Mike has many autographed pictures in his possession. Most of the photographs that are being displayed presently are of local performers.

<p>One of Mike’s favorite stories to tell is that legendary Blues guitarist and vocalist Stevie Ray Vaughn would go to the Top Ten regularly on Saturdays in his youth to check out the shop’s Blues recordings. As a note of interest Stevie Ray Vaughn is buried in Laurel Land Cemetery not too far from the grave of J.D. Tippit.

<p>To me the most wonderful thing about the Top Ten is that this is how neighborhood record shops existed when I was buying records back in the mid 1960’s.

<p>From what I have observed on my visits to the Top Ten is that Mike and his staff know almost everybody that comes in by name, and they have a good idea of what they are looking for.  In this day and age of corporate owned superstores and chain stores, it is great that a small businessman like Mike can provide personalized service that these other record stores can’t offer.

<p>The Top Ten Record Shop still has the phone used by Officer Tippit on the day he was killed.

<p>I urge anybody that visits Dallas to stop in at the Top Ten and visit Mike, I know you will not be disappointed.

<p>Some of you are asking how the Top Ten is connected to the Kennedy Assassination, based on the original eyewitness interviews here are the events that occurred.

<p>A few minutes before Dallas Police officer J.D. Tippit was murdered at 10th and Patton he was sighted 6/10’s of a mile away at the Top Ten Record Shop by it’s owner in 1963  J.W. “Dub” Stark and a young clerk that worked in the shop named Louis Cortinas.  They basically said that Tippit came into the shop in a hurry, asked to use the telephone, Tippit made a call, did not get an answer. Then Tippit quickly left the shop and drove his squad car away at a fast speed in the direction of the street that he was murdered.

<p>I have seen this event written about several times in print and sometimes the story varies from one account to another. Most of the information that researchers have used to describe this event are their interpretation of an interview done by former Dallas Morning News reporter Earl Golz of Louis Cortinas.

<p>It has been my pleasure to correspond and speak with Earl on several occasions and it is with Earl’s permission that his transcript of the interview is published here for the first time and I thank him for his generosity.

<p>Earl would interview people to get background information for his many Kennedy assassination articles. He would tape record the interview and then would make transcripts of some of these interviews. The following interview was done on December 2, 1981

<p>Cortinas said he “was behind the counter at the Top Ten Record Shop, 338 W. Jefferson Blvd., on Nov. 22, 1963. Police officer J.D. Tippit parked his car on Bishop Street, apparently heading north, and came into the shop in a hurry and asked Cortinas if he could use the phone at the counter.” Cortinas said he recalls “ Tippit being in such a hurry that he had to ask people in the narrow aisle to step aside.”

<p>“Tippit said nothing over the phone, apparently not getting an answer. Cortinas said he stood there long enough for it to ring about 7 or 8 times.  Tippit hung up the phone and walked off fast he was worried or upset about something” Cortinas said.

<p>“Tippit sped away in his squad car across Jefferson down Bishop to Sunset, where he ran a stopsign and turned right down Sunset.” Cortinas “could not determine whether he had anyone else in his car.”

<p>“Maybe 10, no more than 10 minutes Tippit had left when  I heard he had been shot on the radio.” Cortinas said. Cortinas then “Drove off in Dub Stark’s  new car down Sunset, across Zang and up Tenth. He noticed the commotion around Texas Theatre and got out of the car in time to see police taking Oswald out of theatre. People were trying to strike Oswald and spit at him but contrary to some stories he didn’t say a thing as police escorted him to a squad car and literally threw him in, bumping his head hard on the door.”

<p>Cortinas “then drove on to Parkland and stood with other people looking.

<p>Cortinas said “Tippit would come into the record shop occasionally to use the phone while on duty.” Cortinas who was 36 years old this past October would have been 18 in 1963. He “knew Tippit to talk to from other experience, having been ticketed many times for drag racing near Austin’s Barbecue.” Cortinas also knew Tippit from seeing him at Austin’s, where he knew the waitress he thought Tippit was having an affair with.”

<p>He also “saw Tippit as a security guard or bouncer at Ship’s, a private club in the 2100 block of Fort Worth Avenue and at the Theatre Lounge strip joint run by Barney L. Weinstein at 1326 Jackson.”

<p>Cortinas recalls “trying to get into Ship’s under age early in 1960’s when he spotted Tippit sitting in a raised portion of the entranceway to check people coming in. He and other boys climbed onto the roof of the Theatre Lounge to watch the girls through a skylight, also in the early 1960’s” He remembered “Chris Colt’s 45 from there”

<p>“Tippit was an odd guy,” Cortinas said “Some times I would come into Austin’s with my girlfriend and tap him on the shoulder and he would turn around and shake hands and act like a good friend. Other times when I did that, he turned around and gave me a look like he didn’t know me and didn’t want to know me.”

<p>That is the end of the original Earl Golz transcript.

<p>At this point I wish to thank Earl Golz, the original source of these interviews for all the time and additional information he has provided me. In my conversations with Earl, he informed me that these interviews were part of his research for an article that was published in the December 1982 issue of Gallery magazine.

<p>Earl also informed me that he had to go and seek out Cortinas and Stark and as far as he could tell “they were not wanting publicity nor were they prone to exaggerate.”

<p>Both Cortinas and Stark were interviewed individually and were conducted in person. These men had gone their separate ways and had not seen each other for years at the time of these interviews.

<p>Cortinas and Stark told Earl basically the same story as we can see by the interview notes. I respect Earl Golz’s experience in writing dozens of articles for the Dallas Morning News and interviewing hundreds of people in order to obtain the information used in them, so I asked Earl about the feeling he got from the Cortinas interview. Earl related that Louis Cortinas “was very relaxed and forthcoming in talking with him about this incident.” Cortinas was hard to locate and Earl wished to go to Cortinas’ house for the interview because he “thought he could obtain a more complete description of the event.” Earl mentioned to Cortinas that he was interested in information about Tippit making a hurried phone call at the Top Ten Record Shop and in Earl’s words “the story flowed out of him much in the same way as Stark had told him previously”

<p>In the past few years I have been contacted by several researchers who have come across this information in one form or another and have questioned the accuracy of these statements and the veracity of the witnesses.

<p>Let us look at some of the statements that Cortinas made that some researchers have questioned.

<p>1: Cortinas could not have seen if Tippit’s squad car was parked on Bishop Ave.

<p>This is true, the record shop is one store east of Bishop Ave. (see photograph) and you can not see south on Bishop Ave. from the inside of the record shop. A possible explanation is that when Tippit left the record shop Cortinas saw him walk out the door and immediately walk in the direction of Bishop, then seconds later he observed Tippit’s squad car speed across Jefferson Blvd. going North on Bishop Ave..  Cortinas could have assumed that Tippit’s squad car was parked pointing north on Bishop Ave.. The reason being that Cortinas’ observation of the short amount of time in which Tippit was able to get to the car and get across the intersection of West Jefferson Blvd. traveling north meant that Tippit’s squad car was close by and pointing in the direction he drove in seconds later.

<p>2: Cortinas could not have seen Tippit run a stop sign and go right on Sunset from behind the counter at the record shop.

<p>View out the front window of the record shop from behind the counter.

<p>I have taken photographs of the view out the front window of the record shop from behind the counter (thank you Mike Polk!) and one of those photographs is reproduced at right. Directly across West Jefferson Blvd. from the Top Ten there is parking along the East Side of Bishop Ave.. The first impression is that the cars parked there would block the view of the intersection of Bishop Ave and Sunset Ave. from behind the counter. When I was behind the counter taking the photographs I was able to see if a car was making a right turn on Sunset Ave. in the gap between the windshield of the cars and the outside wall of the building, even if there were several cars parked along the east side of Bishop Ave. Also from behind the counter you can clearly observe if a car would go straight or take a left at the corner of Sunset Ave. and Bishop Ave.

<p>3:Tippit had to have left the record shop more than 10 minutes before it was announced on the radio that a police officer had been shot in Oak Cliff.

<p>We will probably never know the exact time that Tippit left the Top Ten Record Shop or the exact moment that he was killed. Every person’s perception of time is different, to some 10 minutes could seem like an hour and to others it could feel like less than a few minutes. Correctly estimating time is a skill that many people do not have.

<p>One of the first reports of a policeman being shot in Oak Cliff was on Dallas radio station KLIF at 1:33 P.M. (National Archives) Cortinas then drove off in Stark’s new car around the neighborhood and then noticed a commotion at the Texas Theatre and watched as the police brought out Oswald and threw him into the police car, these activities at the theatre were at about 1:50 P.M. (Channel One Transcript-Kimbrough/Shearer)

<p>If we go back 10 minutes from the first radio report of the shooting at 1:33 that would mean Tippit was in the record shop at 1:23 P.M. which is an impossibility since this was the approximate time that Tippit’s body arrived at Methodist Hospital by ambulance. (HSCA interview of ambulance driver Clayton Butler, RIF 180-10107-10180). The timeframes here suggest the possibility that Cortinas could have heard the news on the radio at 1:33P.M. or later and then drove around until he saw the activity at the Texas Theatre. Cortinas’ estimate that he heard the radio broadcast 10 minutes after Tippit left could be an honest mistake explained by Cortinas’ perception of 10 minutes as compared with the actual amount of time that had gone by.

<p>4: Some researchers point out that the record shop is too far from Tippit’s District #78 for Tippit to use the phone occasionally while he was on duty.

<p>This is true; district #78 is about 4.5 miles east of the record shop, at it’s closest point. According to Sergeant Calvin Bud Owens “Tippit had been assigned to District 78 for about 6 months to a year and had previously been assigned to patrol Districts 83 and 84 for three years” CE 2985 pg.8. In Warren Commission Exhibit #2645 Assistant Chief of Police Batchelor states in regards to patrol district assignments that “as many as two or three districts are frequently patrolled by one squad car. The northern part of District 83 is about 1.5 miles from the record shop.

<p>Here are three other views of the Top Ten Record shop:

<p>