<h>The 64th Annual Golden Globe Award Nominees

<p>Unlike the Emmys , it always seems like the Golden Globes choose the nominees most television fans feel are the most deserving of recognition. Many times, these nominees are those who were snubbed at Emmy time, which of course makes for a much happier television fan. This year's nominees are a varied bunch and for the first time, I cannot think of one single nomination that is not much deserved! Newcomers Heroes , Ugly Betty , Dexter and Big Love scored nominations in major categories, but I think the Lost fans will be among the happiest since the series not only received a nod for Best Drama, but Evangeline Lily was also nominated for Best Actress in a Drama. The 64th Annual Golden Globe Awards will air on NBC on Monday, January 15, 2007. And the Nominees Are....

<p>(Photo of the Cast of Big Love © HBO Photo Credit: Ron Batzdorff)

<p>An Interview with Misha Harris (Agent Alameda, Watch Over Me)

<p>Many actors know they want to break into show business at an early age and live their lives based on their ambition. Some do go on to get college degrees, but usually don't make use of their education when they score a great gig. Misha Harris, an up-and-coming actress, has lived life to the fullest before appearing in her first acting role. After graduating with a degree in Social Sciences/Economics from USC, Misha had a successful career in real estate, worked as an asset manager for Barry Diller at USA Networks and trained to become a Master Chef from the Culinary Arts Institute for Food and Wine. I had the opportunity to chat with the very lovely Misha about her favorite beaches, the concept of a telenovella and her roles on My Network TV's Fashion House and Watch Over Me .

<p>(Photo of Misha Harris © Kevyn Major Howard)

<p>An Interview with James Morrison (Bill Buchanan, 24)

<p>When we think of 24 , instantly we feel tense and excited at the same time. Those jaw-clenching, edge-of-your-seat episodes are some of the very best television has to offer. I had the wonderful opportunity to chat with James Morrison , who portrays Bill Buchanan on the Emmy-winning series and discovered that not only is he one of the nicest actors I've had the pleasure of interviewing, but this calm and laid back actor is nothing at all like his alter ego on 24. Learn more about this interesting actor, what it's like going through life with a famous name and get some very interesting scoop on season six of the Emmy-winning series 24 .

<p>