<h>Filed under: What the...? — Melissa @ 7:25 am

<p>I finally got out of the house to have a pseudo-girl’s night.

<p>I was invited to a birthday/going away party for a friend of mine who is transferring to DC soon. It was also his 40th birthday.  The party was set to start at 7pm.  I, of course, was running a little later than I wanted to.  But hey, it’s “fashionably late”, right.  No problem.  When I got there, the birthday boy wasn’t even there yet.  Neither was anyone else.  Jess and Crystal were the party-throwers, and they were there.

<p>So, we decided that if no one else showed up by 8:30, we were going out to party for  a while.  My hubby was watching the girls, so I was free for the night.

<p>We called the birthday boy on his cell phone at about 8pm and he said he was on his way from Auburn, so we thought “okay, he’ll be here in about 40?.

<p>Well, he didn’t get there in 40.  He got there about 4 hours later.  Yes, it was around midnight when he showed up.  But others showed up before that.  So, we stayed there and had a few drinks, ate some cake and snacked on some yummy munchies while we waited for the birthday boy to show up.

<p>Girl talk ensued.  Much girl talk.

<p>Then, after the birthday boy showed up and we properly welcomed him by badgering him about being profusely late, we decided to head out to town.

<p>We had about 12 or 13 people all together and we were supposed to all be going to the same place, but we took 2 different cars.  You know how it is.   Three of us (myself, Jess and Crystal) all went in one vehicle and the others went in a couple other vehicles.

<p>We promised we would meet up at the same bar in about 5 minutes.  Um, yeah, that didn’t happen.  Our little threesome stayed at the bar we started at for about an hour or two.

<p>We were having a great time just sitting there, being treated to a free beverage courtesy of a nice (older) gentleman sitting at the bar, who noticed us walk in.

<p>All of  a sudden, Jess is having a heated conversation with someone sitting on the other side of her.  Crystal and I were wondering what the heck was going on.  This 50-something lady (and I use that term loosely) was giving Jess a hard time.  Aparently, that was HER seat Jess was sitting in.  And of course Crystal and I were wondering how this seat was hers if she wasn’t sitting in it, and we were in a crowded bar (which seemed to be at full capacity at that time).  Her purse was sitting in front of the chair next to the one Jess sat down in, but not in front of the seat Jess sat in.  So, the teenie-bopper wannabe gramma decided to raise a huff with the bartender about it.  The bartender proceeded to tell us that the older woman had in-fact been sitting there all night.  Well, woopedee doo.  She wasn’t sitting there when we walked in.  She was dancing, or whatever you call what she was doing on the dance floor.  Needless to say, we caused a commotion in the place and everyone at the bar was watching us closely at this point.  Just waiting to see a fist fight or see us getting tossed out on our tooshies.

<p>So, we decided to take the high road and move over to another side of the pub.   We got another drink and tried to let that situation pass.   While Jess was getting cornered by some guy who had been eyeing her all night, Crystal and I went to talk to some of her acquaintances.  In between potty breaks, we kept running into people Crystal knows.   I really don’t get out much.  That much is obvious.

<p>Just one thing bothered me, getting pinched on the cheek and being told I’m “cute”.

<p>Good God, what am I? 13?  I don’t want to be told I’m cute.   I’m not available anyway, so I quickly flashed my diamond at him and he got the picture.   I guess it’s nice to get hit on every once in a while.  It makes ya feel like someone else thinks you’re attractive besides your significant other.

<p>We left the bar and started heading to the place where we were supposed to meet everyone else, and that’s where my night ended.  I drove the girls to the other bar, and drove Crystal’s SUV back to Jess’s house, picked up my car and headed home.

<p>That was my Saturday night.  Full of fun, surprises, excitement.   I had a blast.

<p> 

<p>