
URL: http://www.lef.org/magazine/mag97/nov-fit97.html
<p> Many people want to gain the kind of useful, healthy weight
 that pumping iron and taking protein provides.

<p>Human needs vary so widely that one part of our population spends
 billions of dollars every year attempting to lose weight, while
 the other spends big bucks attempting to gain weight-muscle
 weight, that is.

<p>Excessive body fat is mainly a nutritional problem. Simply put,
 when someone gets fat, they've consumed more than their share
 of calories. Of course, activity, or the lack thereof, also
 plays a major role in the accumulation of excess fat because
 the body is unable to burn away those extra calories.

<p>But how about weight gain? What can skinny, under-developed men
 and women do to bulk up, get stronger and look like well-conditioned
 athletes?

<p>Weight training is the prime stimulus for functional weight gain,
 resulting in muscle, not fat. Weight or resistance training
 induces a biological condition known as anabolism, or tissue
 rebuilding. On the microscopic level, weight training actually
 tears down the muscle fibers. A stage known as catabolism or
 tissue breakdown, then, with the body's recuperative abilities,
 repairs itself and stimulates another remarkable condition known
 as hypertrophy, or tissue enlargement.

<p>To stimulate the best anabolic state, say the authorities, medium
 to heavy resistance must be used while weight training. This
 kind of resistance places the necessary load onto the tissues
 to 1) damage them with micro tears, and 2) force the body into
 a state of anabolism and hypertrophy by a series of nutritional
 and hormonal reactions.

<p>Generally speaking, in order to gain lean body weight, weight
 training should comprise sets of six to 12 repetitions each.
 Less than six repetitions is considered too light, while more
 than 12 is considered too heavy. To isolate the actual load
 you need for training, simply select and handle weights that
 allow you to "fail" within the six- to 12-repetition range.
 If you fall short or go beyond this range, simply adjust the
 amount of weight up or down on subsequent sets or workouts and
 you'll stay within your muscle-building range.

<p>It also is suggested that three to six nutritionally balanced
 meals be consumed daily for optimal muscle growth. It can be
 difficult for diehard bulk-seekers to actually consume this
 many meals on a daily basis, let alone high-quality, nutritious
 meals. But those who manage to discipline themselves so they
 eat the right number of meals find it easier to pack on added
 muscle.

<p>Not only is eating this many quality meals tough, it can be impractical
 for most lifestyles. To compensate for this void in muscle-building
 nutrition, meal-replacement formulas have been designed. When
 searching for a meal-replacement formula, you must consider
 the protein sources and quality, the glycemic rating of the
 carbohydrates, the fiber to provide bulk and intestinal clearing,
 and the enzymes to assist in the breakdown and assimilation
 of nutrients. A product that contains all of these constituents
 makes for a complete meal replacement.

<p>It is well-known that many athletes and fitness enthusiasts become
 nutrient-deficient. With the extreme demands of training, food
 alone is often inadequate to replenish one's nutritional needs.
 Some experts believe that if an athlete tries to obtain all
 of his or her nutrition from food alone, an excessively high
 amount of food would have to be ingested, which would disrupt
 digestion and lead to fat deposition.

<p>My suggestions for gaining functional lean body weight are as
 follow. These are general guidelines that will have to be varied
 for certain individuals.

<p>One-Hour Workouts

<l>Weight training should be performed three to five times weekly.
 Loads should be of moderate to heavy resistance, with between
 six and 12 repetitions for each set. Workout periods should
 last no more than one hour because longer exercise periods could
 cause your blood testosterone levels to become too depleted
 to assist in anabolism and hypertrophy. 

<l>It is important to consume protein frequently throughout the
 day to maintain a state known as positive nitrogen balance.
 Nitrogen is connected to proteins to make them function properly.
 When protein, or nitrogen, is low, you lose muscle mass and
 begin to atrophy. The best way to maintain a positive nitrogen
 balance is by eating protein with every meal and supplementing
 your protein between meals. Protein can be consumed as often
 as every three to four hours. The constant influx of amino acids
 will raise the level of circulating blood proteins and nitrogen,
 which will be easily available to saturate the tissues throughout
 the day. 

<l>Meal frequency is important. To gain lean body weight, you need
 to increase your total daily calories. The best way of doing
 so is to eat small, more-frequent nutritious meals. This will
 ensure a steady influx of nutrition, increase total daily calories,
 make way for better digestion and result in more muscle growth.
 

<l>Carbohydrates are needed to supply the spark plugs for the energy
 that makes anaerobic movement possible. Shortly after carbohydrates
 are eaten, sugar is released into the bloodstream. This rise
 in blood sugar sends a signal to the pancreas, which releases
 insulin. Insulin acts as a shuttling hormone, chaperoning the
 sugar to the muscle and liver where it ultimately is stored
 as glycogen. The more glycogen you can store the more energy
 you have, leading to better workouts, speedier recuperation
 and more dramatic tissue hypertrophy. 

<l>Water is a major component of the human body. In fact, according
 to experts, more than 70 percent of muscle is water. With this
 in mind, it stands to reason that the more water your muscles
 can hold, the bigger and stronger they will become. Protein
 is hydrophilic, meaning it attracts and holds water. When you
 consume protein, muscle tissue, which is made of protein, will
 attract and hold more water. And this is exactly where you want
 the water to be held, in the intercellular spaces or inside
 the tissues of your muscles. You don't want water to be held
 in the subcutaneous spaces, which are over the muscle and under
 the skin; this causes a condition known as edema. So drink plenty
 of water and watch your muscles grow. 

<p>Digestive System Integrity

<l>Enzymes and fiber are two very important nutritional components,
 not only for weight gain, but for great health in general. Enzymes
 are protein molecules that enable the food you eat to be broken
 down and properly assimilated. Simply put, without enzymes the
 food you eat cannot become a functional part of your body. 

<p>
Fiber is a component of plants that helps to maintain the integrity
 of the digestive system. If your digestive system becomes disturbed,
 the nutrition available from food cannot effectively permeate
 your intestinal walls, leading to poor absorption. This creates
 an ill state known as auto-intoxication, an intestinal condition
 in which the body poisons itself from undigested foods. No matter
 how much food you eat, you won't benefit properly if the foods
 cannot be utilized by your body.

<l>Rest and a positive mental attitude enables you to maintain a
 physiological state that keeps your body in harmony with your
 desired aspirations. When you increase your training, especially
 to the intensities needed to gain lean weight, you also need
 to increase your nutrition and sleep. 

<l>My three-part formula involves a) nutrition, b) training, and
 c) rest and sleep. If that balance is off, you either will become
 overtrained, acquire some sort of ailment, or simply never reach
 your maximum potential.

<l>Protein is important for everybody, whether you're a hard-training
 athlete, or someone who just wants to live a normal healthy
 life. Protein is needed for proper growth, maintenance and repair
 of body cells. It is made up of smaller compounds called amino
 acids. When a protein food or supplement contains all of the
 essential amino acids, it is regarded as a complete protein.
 Essential amino acids are those that the body cannot synthesize,
 so they must be obtained from food or supplementation on daily
 basis. There are many foods that contain protein but are incomplete
 because they lack one or more of the essential amino acids.
 Combining incomplete protein foods is a good way of making sure
 you get all the amino acids you need for growth and repair.
 This is especially important for vegetarians, who have to be
 careful to eat the right combination of protein foods from various
 sources.

<p> There are roughly 22 amino acids needed for optimum human health.
 All 22 amino acids must be available to the body on a daily
 basis if one is to live a healthy productive life. Of these
 22 amino acids, eight (or nine, depending on the source) are
 considered essential for human health. The term essential refers
 to the fact that it is essential that one must eat or ingest
 these amino acids on a daily basis from foods or supplements.
 The remaining amino acids can be produced or synthesized by
 the body in the event they are not obtained from the diet.

<p>Positive Nitrogen Balance

<p>Most nutrients contain carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. Protein contains
 all three but also includes a backbone of nitrogen. The more
 nitrogen our bodies can retain the stronger and healthier we
 become.

<p>When protein intake is adequate to meet our normal daily requirements
 and no more, a condition known as nitrogen equilibrium is experienced.
 When one is deprived of adequate protein, negative nitrogen
 balance occurs. Of course, equilibrium is the better of these
 two conditions, but those who maintain nitrogen equilibrium
 often remain at the same strength and size despite changes in
 training intensity.

<p>Negative nitrogen balance is bad news. When you're sick, injured
 or being deprived of food, your body tries to fill its nutritional
 void by cannibalizing itself, a process also know as catabolism.
 The body actually eats its own muscle tissue (heart and lungs
 included) to extract the amino acids it needs to operate. This
 is why I endorse the daily use of high-protein foods and supplements.
 The ideal condition for health enthusiasts and athletes is to
 attain a condition known as positive nitrogen balance. Positive
 nitrogen balance simply means your tissues are getting more
 protein, and retaining more nitrogen than is being excreted
 daily. When you see a true health enthusiast, someone who eats
 correctly all the time and exercises regularly, or an athlete
 who trains hard and smart year-round, you see an individual
 with a symmetrical tone to his physique and high levels of energy
 that come from proper eating and regular exercise.

<p>Most experts believe the U.S. Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA)
 for protein is too low. Whether you're a casual fitness participant
 or a world-class athlete, try eating RDA-recommended doses of
 protein for any length of time, and see if you grow in stamina,
 strength and muscle tone. Chances are you won't. Experts claim
 that 1 to 1.5 grams of complete protein should be consumed for
 every pound of body weight on a daily basis.

<p>For example, if a man weighs 170 pounds, he might opt to eat
 170 to 255 grams of protein every day. Of course, eating that
 much from food might seem impossible, especially when you consider
 that a single egg white contains only 4 grams of protein-that's
 a lot of eggs to swallow. And eating this much protein should
 be spread out throughout the day in four to eight separate feedings
 rather than trying to eat the entire amount in one sitting.
 Protein needs vary according to the individual and lifestyle.
 Some folks can get by on the low side of the above recommendation
 and maintain a positive nitrogen balance, while others need
 to increase their protein intake to the higher figure. In either
 case, it is useful and practical to take supplements to increase
 your intake of protein to optimal value, without overeating.


