
URL: http://www.markcarey.com/shopping/p/B0002XVQSU
<p>Aspect Ratio: 1.78:1Audience Rating: NR (Not Rated)Binding: DVDEAN:
 0024543114185Format: Box set, Closed-captioned, Color, Dolby,
 Dubbed, Subtitled, Widescreen, NTSCLabel: 20th Century FoxManufacturer:
 20th Century FoxNumber Of Items: 7Publisher: 20th Century FoxRegion
 Code: 1Release Date: December 07, 2004Sales Rank: 217Studio:
 20th Century FoxTheatrical Release Date: November 06, 2001

<p>Amazon.com:
There's not one cougar to be found in 24's dynamic
 third season, and that's good news for everyone. After Jack
 Bauer's daughter Kim (Elisha Cuthbert) survived hokey hazards
 in season 2, she's now a full-time staffer at CTU, the L.A.-based
 intelligence beehive that's abuzz once again--three years after
 the events of 'Day Two'--when a vengeful terrorist threatens
 to release a lethal virus that could wipe out much of the country's
 population. Jack (Kiefer Sutherland) attempts to broker a deal
 for the virus involving drug kingpin Ramon Salazar (Joaquim
 de Almeida), whose operation Jack successfully infiltrated at
 high personal cost: to maintain his cover, he got hooked on
 heroin. That potentially deadly triangle--drug lords, addiction,
 and bioterrorism on a massive scale--sets the 24-hour clock
 ticking in a tight, action-packed plot involving a potential
 traitor in CTU's midst; the return of TV's greatest villainesses
 in Nina Meyers (Sarah Clarke) and former First Lady Sherry Palmer
 (Penny Johnson Jerald); a troubled romance between Kim and Jack's
 new partner Chase (James Badge Dale); and a scandalized reelection
 campaign by president David Palmer (Dennis Haysbert), who monitors
 CTU as they struggle to (literally) save the day.

<p>
 The intricately woven subplots that are 24's greatest strength
 are masterfully developed here, and character arcs are equally
 strong, especially among CTU staffers Tony (Carlos Bernard)
 and his wife Michelle (Reiko Aylesworth); CTU director Ryan
 Chappelle (Paul Schulze), who is season 2's tragic bargaining
 chip; and the annoying but well-intentioned Chloe O'Brian (Mary
 Lynn Rajskub), who makes pivotal contributions with by-the-book
 efficiency. It's 24's superior casting that overcomes the series'
 occasional lapses in credibility, and season 3's twists make
 marathon viewing a nerve-wracking delight. By the time it's
 all over, 24 once again leaves you gratefully exhausted. As
 always, Sutherland anchors the series in the role he was born
 to play. When Jack takes a private moment to release 24 hours'
 worth of near-fatal tension and psychological anguish, Sutherland
 proves that 24's dramatic priorities are as important as its
 thriller momentum. DVD extras include behind-the-scenes featurettes
 (about the prison break sequence, climactic F-18 Hornet air-strike,
 and real-life bio-weaponry) that pay welcome tribute to the
 series' hard-working crew, who create Emmy-worthy television
 under pressures as intense as 24 itself. --Jeff Shannon

<p>Customer Reviews

<p>Average Rating: 

<p>
 Rating:  - SOMEBODY SHOOT CHASE EDMUNDS!!!
 An outstanding
 series, 24 Season Three brings to the screen the parallel stories
 of mainly: Jack Bauer, Tony Almeda/Michelle Dessler, Kim Bauer/Chase
 Edmunds and President David Palmer/Wayne Palmer/Sherry Palmer
 among others. 
The setting is Los Angeles 3 years after the
 nuclear incident and over 4 years after the events on the day
 of the Democratic California Primary, and Federal (CTU) agent
 Jack Bauer is trying to thwart an attempt to release a deadly
 virus on the general population. As is ... Read More

<p>
 Rating:  - Excellent!
 ......the first time I was exposed to
 24 was during the season premiere of Season Five. I was at a
 friends house and he was flipping through the channels and this
 was on. I loved the show from then on, but knew I would have
 to get caught up to know what was going on. I never watched
 an episode again for a long time (because I always worked when
 it was on). Recently one of my friends was telling me how great
 a show 24 is, and a store had the Seasons 1-4 on sale for $16,
 so I decided, why the hell not. ... Read More

<p>
 Rating:  - A Great Collection of Episodes
 24 season three
 is plentiful with plot nice twists and turns, many of which
 end up as a great series. This aspect proves to be both a strength
 and a weakness. Watching the entire season in such a brief period
 of time, I noticed how it is clearly divided between two stories,
 while the plot twists proved to be natural and compelling during
 the first story. Regardless of any flaws, 24-season Three is
 the best television series I have ever seen. Kiefer Sutherland
 as Jack Bauer instantly stands out as a great ... Read More

<p>
 Rating:  - It's great show,buy all 4 right now thats how good
 it is
 a great show like 24 you don't know what to expect. The
 things I expect with this show is suspence, action, an intence
 fast paced roller coaster, plot twists, and thrills. Fortunately
 I get all five in this hit show. But what isn't expected in
 these intence four rounds of 24 hours? The kind of suspence,
 action, the type of intence fast paced roller coaster, the types
 of plot twists and thrills. Unfortunately for Jack Bauer once
 the clock starts to tick his 24 hour nightmare begins. 24 is
 a hard hitting show. ... Read More

<p>
 Rating:  - Good but not as good as Seasons one &amp; two.

 The show itself is addictive and it is difficult to stop watching
 until you've seen all 24 episodes. I give it four stars only
 because it is not quite as good as seasons one and two. However,
 I will buy seasons four and five and I would recommend this
 without qualification for any action and suspense fan. 

<p>
 The Seinfeld DVD is available for pre-order on my Seinfeld
 site. You can also order the Sex and the City DVD and more,
 from my new shopping site. Also see the Mortgage Leads, Mortgage
 Information, Home Equity Loan, and Christian debt consolidation
 sections of my new web directory (more categories and features
 coming soon). 


