
URL: http://www.womenrussia.com/blackpage132.htm
<p>I know that many scams are out there and everyone needs to be
 very careful! Just never send money. But.........I met and married
 a beautiful Russian lady that is more than I could have ever
 dreamed of. I went to Vladivostok last October after emailing
 and talking on the telephone for several months.  She came here
 on 12/23/01 and we were married on 2/27/02. She is  intelligent,
 hard working, sexy, gorgeous and we are very happy together.
 

<p>I was contacted by this person (could be a man or a woman as
 photos are stock images they use) when he/she answered my Personals
 ad on the Yahoo Personals. Luckily right off the bat I was suspicious,
 but continued correspondence to see the progression, which ultimately
 ended with theLetter 13 request for money for the passport/visa.
 This site alerted me early on, as "her" photos were among those
 listed on here as known scammers. "her" letters also followed
 the typical non-response to my questions from previous emails,
 and the form letters fell in love with me for no good reason
 so quickly. Her initial letter said to call her either Anastasia
 OR Nastya. 

<p>Letter 1:

<p>Hi. I was pleasantly surprised when has found out your answer
 in my mail box.  I have tried to write to you but I thought
 that you will not answer to me.  It so is interesting to correspond
 with the foreign man from America. I  very badly know computers
 but I went on rates of training to the computer.  I now know
 how to use mail on the computer. As you have understood or not
 but  I live in Russia in city Syktyvkar. I shall send to you
 a map where my city  is located. If want I shall tell to you
 about my city. I today went in  computer club and I have made
 new photos now I can send to you it if you  want. In this letter
 I shall send you my new photo. I have twenty seven  years old
 now but in the end of autumn it will be 28 to me. I'm interested
  in man for my life. I the lonely woman but I do not want to
 be alone. I  was never married and I havn't kids still. I have
 serious intentions and  I do not want to make a wrong choice.
 I have tried to write to you and now  I see that you have answered
 to me, I think we can begin to correspond with  you. I have
 written only once and you have answered to me I think that 
 you are interested. Is it true? We are two people which want
 to meet someone.  I think we can try to know better each other
 but if you don't want it's  your choice. I want to ask you do
 you correspond with women already? Maybe  russian women? Do
 you have russian friends or friends who know russian people?
  It's interesting for me. Do you know russian language? I studied
 the English  language at school and university and I think you
 understand me. I can speak  english also. I have finished university
 on a speciality "The Finance and rights"  and now I work in
 private shop as the financier. We have the computer here and
 I use it for our correspondence. But you must know I can't use
 it for long long time and please if you will send me the photos
 try to make it not much volume (size). There is no internet
 connection available but the email is works. So  I write you
 from my work. Sometimes I use the translation program to write
 to you because I don't know some words but most of all text
 I write personally. I  can write you 5-6 times per week, I think
 I can't write on sunday but I can  on saturday.(I work in saturday
 sometimes). Now I live alone and I rent my flat. Please tell
 me in your next email (if you will decide to correpond with
 me of course) how you want that I call you. You may call me
 Anastasia or Nastya. If you will answer me I'll write you tomorrow.
 I'll wait for your response. Anastasia.

<p>Letter 7:

<p>Hi my friend Dave. I'm very glad to write you today. It's warm
 here. I thought about you Dave this days.  Usually I spent my
 time at my home in weekend. I don't know what to do in weekends
 and I clean my  flat watch tv and read. I want to change my
 life and find the man which will make me happy and  which I
 make happy too. Every day I wake up at morning 6-7 o'clock,
 have my breakfast which usually I prepare by myself, I like
 to have tea at morning. Then I go to my work, I stand on bus
 stop and go to my work. Sometimes when I have much time before
 start of my work I go to my work on foot and  it takes about
 15-20 minutes. I like to walk sometimes and you? I am at work
 up to 7 o'clock evening.  (I start to work at 9 morning). I
 like to work and I think without work it is very boring to me.
  I don't know which quotations in your country but I want to
 tell you about our economic life.  Our people hope that everything
 must be all right soon, our people trust our president Vladimir
  Putin, but I badly know the politics and I think it's not my
 enthusiasm. So my salary is about 1,5-2 thousands of roubles
 per month. and it's about 50-70 american dollars if you want
 to know. But our prices is not very big, for example I pay about
 700-800 roubles for my rent flat and other  money I spend for
 food, clothe and other things. For example bread cost about
 5-6roubles and usual  dress about 600-800 roubles. I don't know
 it's interesting to you or not but it's the life in Russia.
  It's the very big salaries in Moscow about 7000-30000 roubles
 but the flats cost very much, for example  if you wanted to
 buy the flat in Moscow it will cost about 20000-100000 american
 dollars. It's fantastic  sums and if someone want to rent the
 flat it will be 200-300 dollars per month. I don't know prices
 of your country. After 7 o'clock I go home, watch tv, read or
 sometimes I go with my girlfriends Olga and Luda in cafe and
 we speak a lot, have tea. Sometimes we go to cinema or in sports
 hall. I want to find someone and change my life I want to live
 for someone, who knows maybe it's you Dave. I had one man before
 and he was not the best choice. He liked to drink alcohol very
 much and when he was drunk he become angry and silly. It offended
 me much and we have parted. Some times he has struck me. I don't
 love him and decide to live alone. Now I want to find someone,
 I don't know the destiny and I tried to write you, you answer
 to me and now I'm interested in you and want know all about
 you, you may ask me all questions what you want Dave. I'll answer
 you. I told my girlfriends and my mother about you Dave. They
 said that it's good but I must be cautious first time and must
 don't make a mistake. They says Hi to you Dave. I want to know
 you better please tell me more about you, I want to know how
 is your day, how you like to spend time. I'll wait for your
 answer. I send you my other photo today, all my photos was made
 not very much timeago. Hope you  like it. Please call me Anastasia
 because Nastya occurs from aNASTyAsia, and Nastya it's children's
 name. When we will be much closer you could call me so. Your
 good friend Anastasia.

<p>Letter 13:

<p>Hi my love Dave!  Today is not hot here again, and I'm thinking
 of you Dave. It was a great day when I received  the first letter
 from you I thank the God and I know that I found the man which
 name is Dave and I love you. Today I find out up to the end
 all about opportunities come to you. The last weekend was too
 slowly lasted without hearing of you Dave, and I miss you Dave.
 I am pleased with an opportunity to meet you soon, and I want
 it very much, I think you want it too, your letters was the
 ray of light in my life. As you know I was not interested in
 moving to other country but I will do it because I found my
 love and it's you Dave!!! We have firm in our city which makes
 the documents for people who want to leave the country.  I asked
 about moving to your country and I got the answer that I need
 the visa, foreign  passport and some other documents for registration.
 We have defined(determined) a type of  the visa and it's type
 which allows to marry in the future but if it will be not realize
 I  must return to my country after ninety days it's limit for
 visa. I asked about prices and was  very surprised, first I
 ask about terms (time) of performance and they said that there
 is many  people who wants to make documents and leave the country
 but if I'll make the application now,  and pay for it now they
 will make all documents not more than two weeks, and if I'll
 not make  the application, documents will be prepared not earlier
 than two or three months because  there are many people who
 wants to do it. I was very surprised of price of it. It cost
 three hundreds and twenty nine american dollars. It's make me
 little suppressed and disappointed I don't have so much now.
 I was make application but I must pay for it. I asked my mother
 about our savings she said that the money should not be a barrier
 between two people which love each other. I counted my sum and
 I found out that I have only about fifty dollars and my wages
 will be not soon. I asked my friends about helping me and they
 said that havn't it at the present moment. I asked the advice
 my mother and she said that maybe you Dave can help me because
 he loves me. I asked her how he can help me, because he is far
 from me. My mother said that Dave can send the money through
 company which make this service. I asked about it on my work
 and I know now that exists reliable and fast company which makes
 remittances in world and it's called western union. I has remember
 that I saw advertising this company on tv. I take a directory
 book and found the address of it and it's not far from me. I
 went there and I asked them about service. They said that sender
 must go to the western union branch, give them information:
 the name and last name of receiver, country they make transfer
 and bring the ten digits secret code to sender. The receiver
 must know ten digits for receiving money. They say that the
 branches of it must be everywhere worldwide. Here is the information
 about me: Country: Russia City: Syktyvkar Name: Anastasia Lastname:
 Fedorova Address of branch of western union: SEVERNY NARODNY
 BANK PERVOMAISKAYA, 68 SYKTYVKAR,167000 phone: 7(821)2441931
 I must know your full name, full address, your contact phone.
 You must know Dave that I decide to ask you about it because
 I love you and trust you  very much. I decide to come to you
 because I feel this way and you are very necessary to me, I
 decided to come to the unfamiliar country and I never be outside
 my country. But I decided to do it because now you are part
 of my life and I trust you in all. I think you trust me too
 and love me too. You must inform me the closest airport to you
 I'll ask the help with ticket from my relatives. Please don't
 forget to tell me the closest airport. My love Dave I need 289
 dollars I think you will help us because we found our love and
 we want to meet closer. You must inform me ten digits and I
 can receive it. You must know Dave we must hurry because I can
 receive the documents soon and if we lost the time it is necessary
 for a long time. Now it's very difficultly to receive the visa
 to your country, and it's fact, but if I pay now I think I do
 it. I think about sense of money, and I'm very sad if this paper
 can prevent people to meet each other. In most cases the money
 play a main role in life but it's not right! I'm sure. And the
 quantity of money was and will not important to me I always
 not aspired to material enrichment and don't search specially
 for rich man. I appreciate human qualities and relations and
 I love you Dave!!! I love you all my heart, I want to be with
 you now... I want to be with you forever. If it's mutually we
 will be very happy in our life. I think you love me too and
 we will meet very soon. You are my love Dave. My heart is yours.
 I'm waiting good news from you, I hope everything will be all
 right and we will be together soon. Every day I think about
 our meeting, and I think it's real, we must use this chance
 of destiny. I LOVE YOU!!!!!!!!  p.s. I send you photo special
 for you it was made by my girlfriend (she loves photograph very
 much) I never show it to anybody it's only for you. I love you!
  Your love Anastasia.

<p>I of course never sent money, thanks to the info learned beforehand
 on this site. Thank you. Dave 

<p>Hello, my name is Mike I am 32 years old, single, with no children
 and I live in Virginia.I wanted to tell you about my experience
 with a fraud. I kind of found out by accident. I was looking
 to see if I could find a map with her street on it in Chelyabinsk
 City. So I typed the words "Chelyabinsk City 107 Darvina Street"
 and hit search on my computer. Was I shocked to find what I
 saw. I saw the same address but with another name. It is on
 page 88 and she uses the name Natalya/Natasha Komarova. Elena
 used the email address of lenocha74@pochtamt.ru. She also spoke
 of her friends Tatyana and Kent. Tatyana met Kent from Canada
 on the internet. Well, so she says. All Elena did was write
 how Tatyana's experience in finding a wonderful man on the internet
 was her motivation in wanting to come to the USA and with me.
 Luckily, I only blew $10.00 on her. I had spent $101.00 on roses
 but the very next day after I found your website, the florist
 in Russian said no such person lived at that address. They were
 nice enough to refund $91.00 and only charge me $10.00 for delivery
 fees.  There's another piece of irony in that she said to NEVER
 send her anything because people steal mail regularly in Russia.
 Now, I know the real reason why she told me not to. Yes, my
 heart is broken but it could have been so much worse. Thank
 you SO much for your website. mike mikalsean@webtv.net

<p>meetabride.com is a complete scam. I am a 38 year old american
 in los angeles. the pictures on meetabride are stolen and not
 real russian women. you will get no response from any women
 or from the web site.

<p>Here is the actual correspondence, and pictures. I just did not
 email back.

<p>Letters:

<p>Hello Brian! :) thank you for you reply :) i live Ukraine. i
 hope this ok. i very happy you reply me. :)) yes i prefer mature
 man because they wise and more serious about life and family.
 this important to me. I speak and write English pretty good,
 but not perfect. I learning very fast. I do not have a computer
 at home and can not click to hyperlink either. :( I register
 with agency to send and receive e-mail when need . When I not
 able to reply quickly, this is problem. It cost some to send
 for email in ukraine. Please not worry about I forget to you
 ok. :)  I am look for a sincere relationship. Men my country
 are most time drunken or do not want make commitment and to
 have family. I only 25 year, but I very mature and I learn most
 about home and family value from parents. i have for one brother.
  I would like to start a new life and have family of own. I
 speak to my parents and they wish best for me, but my dad don't
 believe possible sometime. He think I silly to find happiness
 on internet. He think no man in other country will send for
 me and that man only to play internet. This not stopped me.
 I register with agency that can make for my documents, visa,
 tickets, etc. This my dream! :) I told my father of what I planning,
 and costs, and he cannot afford for costs. Agency can make for
 me visa and plane fair under special program for students. It
 called foreign student exchange. I would be allowed into foreign
 country for 3 months. If I become married or obtaine work visa,
 I could stay longer or stay for always. I don't want to scare
 you away with marriage of course. :) But I want to be sincere
 and honest with you of what I want in life, and hopefully, we
 match. I think i need only look in you eyes once, and I think
 then I know for sure about heart :~). If I to arrive and it
 not work for us, I atleast make chance meet you and try make
 a life with you once. I would really like to meet partner in
 other country. I have friend who put ad like my ad and meet
 for her soulmate. She then fly to other country to meet her
 partner. They become married and plan for family together. They
 live California. I would love for this to happen me too. :)
 I am very dedicate, honest and treat partner with great sincerity.
 I hope that you sincere to meet because I would love to meet
 person who has sincere heart also. If you are sincere with meeting
 and want woman with good value and respect to you, and to know
 place as woman, maybe you reply to me again, and that we meet
 possibly. I don't have any doubts or hesitation about my choice
 to make this step in life. I know this what I want. And if could,
 I would leave today to meet my partner and i not be scared this
 chance take. :~) I ask if you interest me, that you not to write
 for other girl. I not jealous, but I give all my heart and effort
 to decision and want same from partner who interest me. I am
 client at agency that can help me with leave Ukraine to meet
 partner. my cousin also work this agency and am wait for hope
 to meet my soulmate and leave very soon. Once my account pay,
 I can leave less 2 weeks. So you see how to serious I am I hope.
 :~)  Where exact you live and exact work you to do? send to
 me you telephone and i can to call you. I do not have phone,
 but I may have chance to use friend's phone or call box if you
 sincere want to meet. I have chance call you in my next day
 i think.  Love Tatyana, not forget send you telephone... i look
 forward speak you :) ps. i not able open attached. send jpg
 format if possible.

<p>Touching Hearts Club
 12 Hospitalna St. ., Kiev 
 01002, Kiev,
 Ukraine
 --------------------------------------------------

 Ekaterina Smirnova, Account Manager
 --------------------------------------------------

 Dmitri Kolobov Orlov, President
 Please email TouchingHearts@mail.ru
 for more information

<p>
 Tanya, I read your profile and you sound like a sweet girl;
 I am flattered that you sent me a message. Tanya you are a baby,
 at 23 of course you probably are the cutest. Being an older
 guy of course and actually having a girlfriend, lover, or wife
 at such a tender age is, well, exciting! Anyways, I would like
 to see your picture just to know who I am corresponding with.
 I am sending mine as well.  B.D

<p>Copyright © Russian Brides Cyber Guide, 1999-2005. All rights
 reserved.No portion of this site may be reproduced without written
 permission from the author. Feel free to link to.
 The use of
 this site implies your agreement with: Privacy Policy and Terms
 of Use


