
URL: http://www.yorku.ca/cdc/lsp/eponline/exam4.htm
<p>The strategies that we have covered thus far should be helpful
 in preparing you with the necessary knowledge needed to succeed
 with multiple choice exams. For students who lack essential
 learning skills or who fail to apply the kinds of active strategies
 we have been discussing, multiple choice exams are extremely
 difficult. Some students have even gone so far as to label themselves
 incapable of writing multiple choice exams effectively. Some
 have even taken the step of changing out of a major area of
 study to avoid having to take exams in this format. In probably
 the majority of cases, these extreme responses are unnecessary;
 these students would have done better to examine the way they
 were preparing and adjusted their style of learning and studying
 to equip themselves better for these often difficult exams.
 If you're having difficulty with multiple choice exams, you
 will probably want to do what you can to make your situation
 better.

<p>The reasons why these tests are so difficult have to do more
 with the structure of the exams than the level of difficulty
 of the material. Many students make the assumption that multiple
 choice exams are simple and do not require a rigorous approach
 to study. If you can understand not only how to prepare, but
 how to approach and analyze the structure of multiple choice
 questions, you will have a much clearer sense of how to take
 the guess work out of multiple choice exams. In terms of their
 structure, multiple choice exams have a few unsavoury characteristics:
 first, these tests typically have many questions to answer and
 the topics you studied are typically scrambled and shuffled;
 second, the ideas you learned about in class or in the text
 may be reworded in different ways: colloquially, technically,
 by example, or by analogy; third, very often the multiple choice
 test is not simple recognition of basic ideas but recognition
 of the answer to a reasoned problem. Your reasoning must make
 use of the learning from the course and may go beyond the material
 covered in class or require you to apply knowledge from the
 course. You may have to go beyond straight memorization to make
 an analogy or to solve a novel problem. You cannot just be familiar
 with the material; you must be able to write it down, talk about
 it, and analyze it

<p>With all these characteristics, it is no wonder that multiple
 choice tests are both under-estimated by some students and revered
 by others. We begin with a series of in-test strategies and
 then apply these to a few example questions, highlighting the
 structure and purpose of each question. When appropriate, we
 mention additional preparation strategies that could be used
 to prepare for the questions:

<p>PREVIEW THE EXAM. As you browse through, take note of those questions
 which seem easier (i.e., those questions you think you can answer)
 and perhaps plan to skip those which seem harder, setting time
 limits, and getting settled; keep to time divisions for questions
 as they are usually equally weighted; (see In-test Strategies,
 page 20.) 

<p>START WITH QUESTIONS YOU CAN ANSWER READILY. Don't waste time
 labouring over troublesome questions at the start. Be sure to
 get credit for items you know well. 

<p>RECYCLE THROUGH THE TEST. Now try the questions you could not
 do on the first attempt. Sometimes the answer will occur to
 you simply because you are more relaxed after having answered
 other questions. Sometimes, too, your answer to one question
 provides a clue to the answer of another. 

<p>SET GOALS FOR TIME AND PACE YOURSELF ACCORDINGLY. Allocate your
 time according to the relative worth of questions. Try to save
 a few minutes at the end for review and revision. Remember:
 your first answer may not always be your best answer. Change
 answers, but only if you have a good reason for doing so. For
 instance, changing an answer from, say, selection "b" simply
 because your response to the previous four questions was also
 "b" and you cannot believe that five questions in a row would
 have the same item as the correct response, is likely not a
 good reason; be flexible in your approach. 

<p>READ THE QUESTIONS CAREFULLY: twice if necessary. Avoid jumping
 to conclusions about what you think the question asks. 

<p>CIRCLE OR UNDERLINE KEY WORDS IN QUESTIONS. Multiple choice tests
 examine your ability to read carefully and thoughtfully as much
 as they test your ability to recall and reason. Watch for words
 like "all," "always," "never," "none," "few," "many," some,"
 "sometimes." (see Descriptive Words, page 13.) 

<p>TRY TO RECALL A CONCEPT FROM MEMORY or think out the answer before
 looking at the options. Doing this successfully may help you
 "wade through" the alternatives and find a reasonable answer
 or choice. 

<p>CONSIDER THE COVER-UP STRATEGY, whereby you read the question
 and try to answer it by recall before looking at the alternative
 answers; 

<p>CONSIDER THE TRUE/FALSE LABEL STRATEGY whereby you label the
 alternative answers as true or false statements and then look
 for a pattern in the answers; 

<p>SOMETIMES ALTERNATIVES DIFFER BY ONLY ONE OR TWO WORDS or in
 the order of one or two terms. These can seem very confusing.
 It helps sometimes to read the stem of the question (that's
 the question part) with an alternative while covering up the
 others. By methodically thinking through the alternatives this
 way, you may be able to make more sense of the options by labelling
 them true or false and eliminating those that don't correctly
 complete the question. 

<p>USE THE HINT OF HIGHLY SIMILAR PAIRS -- this says that often
 the answer is imbedded in one of two very similar pairs and
 the "most correct" answer is often the one that correctly uses
 course terminology; consider the all or none of the above cues
 -- if two of the preceding alternatives are opposites then one
 of them and the all or none of the above choice is also wrong;
 

<p>BE PREPARED TO CHANGE YOUR ANSWER if you can determine a clear
 reason why your first response is incorrect -- many students
 report difficulties arising from changes that are made on the
 basis of nervous feelings; 

<p>YOU MIGHT WANT TO TRY TO ANSWER ALL THE QUESTIONS FROM THE SAME
 SECTION OF THE COURSE to offset the mixing of questions inherent
 in the design of the test -- this demands care be taken that
 answer sheets are correctly completed and that all questions
 have been answered; consider guessing when there is no penalty
 for a wrong answer. 

<p>BE ALERT TO TERMINOLOGY WHICH LINKS the alternatives or questions
 to key areas of the course, lectures, or chapters of a course's
 materials -- this may help you narrow the field of possible
 choices and think through to the best answer. 

<p>BE WARY OF DESCRIPTIVE WORDS which are overly exclusive or overly
 inclusive. These absolute terms tend to portray things as right
 or wrong where this is often not the case. Words like always,
 never, completely, and only are absolutes. Relative words like
 often, usually, seem and may are often more accurate. 

<p>TRANSLATE DOUBLE NEGATIVE STATEMENTS into positive ones. Examples
 like "Not lacking" or "not none" become "having" and "some"
 and this can reduce confusion. Note that these are often partly
 in the stem and partly in the choices of a particular question.
 

<p>IF YOU MUST GUESS, look for some of these possibilities: the
 style of an answer option is very different from all of the
 others - this may disqualify it; the grammar of the question
 stem is not in agreement with the grammar of an alternative;
 some alternative is not in the area or topic of the question,
 but comes from some other part of the course- this may disqualify
 it. 

<p>OVERALL, remember that you are looking for the best answer, not
 only a correct one, and not one which must be true all of the
 time, in all cases, and without exception.

<p>To assist you in applying the strategies we have been talking
 about, we have included a set of example questions. Examine
 the example questions and the discussion that follows each.
 Look for how the questions have been developed and attend to
 the in-test and preparation strategies mentioned. By understanding
 how multiple choice test questions can be built from course
 notes, you may be better able to construct example questions
 of your own. And, these example questions should help you to
 better understand how to apply the skills that you have been
 learning throughout these web-pages.

<p>1. The memory strategy derived from Miller (1956) involving organizing
 disparate pieces of information into one related, meaningful
 group is referred to as

<p>(a) organization 

<p>(b) the Cornell method 

<p>(c) elaborative rehearsal 

<p>(d) chunking 

<p>(e) SQ3R 

<p>Question 1 is typical of roughly a third of the questions you
 might face on a multiple choice exam in that it tests knowledge
 that was explicitly taught in the course lectures and texts.
 To answer the question you need not go any further than the
 content of your notes or readings, but answering this question
 correctly involves recognizing that the question is essentially
 testing a definition of a concept. A slight twist in this question
 is that the definition is given first and you must label it
 with the correct concept word from the list of alternatives.
 Studying for this question is fairly straightforward: practice
 recalling the definitions of key concepts and practice matching
 the definitions with the correct concept word label. A hint
 for working with this kind of question in an exam: read the
 stem of the question first, noting the key words (here the key
 words are "Miller, 1956" and "one related, meaningful group")
 and try to answer the question from memory before proceeding
 to the alternatives. The advantage of using this approach is
 that you have an answer in mind to compare to each alternative
 -- this often gives you a greater sense of confidence in your
 answer and may reduce "second guessing".

<p>2. Which of the following is not related to the process of elaborative
 rehearsal?

<p>(a) adding details to ideas and concepts 

<p>(b) analyzing component parts of an idea 

<p>(c) restating knowledge in your own words 

<p>(d) practicing remembering the information 

<p>(e) none of the above 

<p>Question 2 is somewhat different from the first question, primarily
 in that it tests in detail the knowledge you have learned in
 your course. To answer this question correctly it is important
 to note that this kind of question forces you to go beyond straight
 memorization of concepts from your course. To prepare adequately
 for this kind of question, you will have to look more deeply
 at the basic information and you will probably want to apply
 strategies which help you elaborate and understand the significance
 of finer details which are related to the concepts.

<p>3. In the study by Bahrick and Hall, 1991 we find that graduates
 of college mathematics courses recall high school math knowledge
 for many years after. According to Bahrick &amp; Hall, which
 of the following would you expect to be true of a group of university
 graduates who did not take math courses at university:

<p>(a) they would recall their math from high school to essentially
 the same extent as those who took math courses in university
 

<p>(b) most would recall little or none of their high school math
 50 years after 

<p>(c) they would recall best those things which they learned more
 about in their university courses 

<p>(d) both (b) and (c) 

<p>(e) all of the above 

<p>Question 3 is representative of a third kind of question you
 are likely to face when writing a multiple choice exam. This
 question is different from the first two in that it involves
 applying the knowledge you have learned or thinking about it
 in a new way which may not have been taught explicitly in your
 course. This question tests your ability to reason through the
 relationship between a theory and evidence which was used to
 support it and apply this understanding to cope with a hypothetical
 situation. (Note, as well, that this question is a good deal
 longer than either of the first two questions and that the options
 are a little more tricky.) To answer this question well, you
 will have to be thoroughly knowledgeable about the theory and
 its actual findings and then be able to apply this knowledge
 to determine a possible outcome for the hypothetical situation
 offered. Studying for this kind of question should probably
 include elaborative review and practice recall of the theory
 and perhaps some creative thinking about what might change in
 a variety of slightly different circumstances from those presented
 in the theory.

<p>If you were to face a question like this one in an exam, you
 might want to start by reading this question twice to be sure
 that you have correctly understood what is being asked. The
 question stem is made up of two parts: the context reference
 for the question, which tells us to think back to something
 we have studied (here it is Bahrick and Hall's 1991 study of
 periodic retrieval); and the question part. You might want to
 pause after the first part of the question stem to recall the
 study done by Bahrick and Hall before moving on any further.
 Because of the length of the alternatives in this question,
 you might want to read the question part of the stem along with
 each alternative individually to keep clear on what you are
 being asked. This kind of question seems to pop up more and
 more in multiple choice exams and chances are you will eventually
 face a test with questions like this. Questions like this one
 are thinker questions and you can probably see how simply memorizing
 the definition for "periodic retrieval" would leave you less
 than prepared to answer question 3. (Answers: 1(d); 2(e); 3(d))


