
URL: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/talking_point/4198482.stm
<p>How will Ken Clarke's decision to stand affect the Tory leadership
 race?

<p> Mr Clarke has attacked Tony Blair's "catastrophic error" over
 the Iraq war in the first speech of his campaign for the leadership
 of the Conservative Party. 

<p> He has stood in leadership races against William Hague and Iain
 Duncan Smith but did not go head to head with Michael Howard
 in 2003. 

<p>What do you think of Ken Clarke's decision? What affect will
 his comments on the Iraq war have on his campaign? Who else
 do you think has a chance at leadership? 

<p>This debate is now closed. Read a selection of your comments
 below.

<p>The following comments reflect the balance of views we have received
 so far:

<p>Try a One nation Conservative in the shape of Ken Clarke

<p>
Jim, Doncaster

<p> Message to all Tory members and so-called supporters. The right
 wingers have had their day and failed. Try a One nation Conservative
 in the shape of Ken Clarke.Jim, Doncaster

<p> If Ken Clarke had been elected last time, then the outcome of
 the last election would have been very different. As it was,
 the Tories are in the backwater for another four to five years.
 If they elect the wrong man this time, I fear that they will
 be forever regarded as the spent force, and ripe for the Lib
 Dems to take over. I just hope that Clarke is elected.Tim Ruggles,
 Cheshunt, Herts

<p>It's sobering to reflect that, if it had been left to the Conservative
 Party, Churchill would never have become prime minister. I fear
 the Tories still haven't learnt that lesson, almost 70 years
 on.Mark, Nottingham, UK

<p> If he wins and I'm sure he will, I can't wait for the bench
 thumping bruiser to knock out Brown and Blair at the despatch
 box. Come on Tories, vote for a winner and a clear public favourite.PBR,
 New York 

<p> I personally feel that it is a good decision for Ken Clarke
 to stand for leadership of the conservative party. I feel though
 his criticism of Tony Blair over Iraq was wrong.Darren Ewen,
 Swindon, England

<p>Why would anyone believe this particular leopard has changed
 its spots?

<p>
John R Smith, UK

<p> Why would anyone believe this particular leopard has changed
 its spots? He's been pro-EU, pro-euro, pro-constitution for
 many years. A couple of quick speeches saying he's changed his
 mind just show him as two-faced and power hungry. If by some
 mischance he wins the leadership race I'll not vote Conservative
 again while he's leader.John R Smith, UK

<p> I don't understand all these Tories who would rather put up
 with a Labour government than have Conservative government led
 by a pro-European. Last time I checked we're a part of the EU
 anyway - Labour won't change that, nor will Clarke.Matt, London

<p> Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are shaking in their boots at the
 thought of Ken Clarke leading the Tory party because he appeals
 to the same people that have given them three successive majorities.
 To be electable, the Tories will have to do as Labour party
 members did, and vote for a leader who is closer to the political
 centre ground - Clarke is that man. The "clear blue water" strategy
 hasn't worked.Steven Clapcote, Toronto, Canada

<p> If Ken Clarke wins it will split the Tory party for the next
 two decades. His stance on the EU and the euro are at odds with
 most of the grass root Tories. His stance now is just political
 opportunism.Peter Barnes, Salford, England

<p>He is the only person who is able to bring the direction and
 leadership to the party

<p>
Bob Forester, Banbury

<p> I hope it will result in him being elected leader. He is the
 only person who is able to bring the direction and leadership
 to the party that it badly needs. He is the only person who
 will be able to mount a serious challenge to Labour. Good luck
 Ken, you have my vote.Bob Forester, Banbury

<p> Is there nothing he won't do to get power? Staunchly for Europe,
 now when he thinks he can get power, he is anti-Europe. I, for
 one, do not believe he has changed his views.John Graves, Telford,
 England

<p> I think Ken Clarke would provide credible opposition to Blair/Brown
 at the next election. I don't understand why the Tories must
 find a new and energetic 30- or 40- something to led the party,
 they need a credible candidate who can routinely score points
 against the government. Clarke can run rings around the 'youngsters'
 on the government benches so he should have his turn. If he
 gets in, the next election will be properly contested by the
 Conservative Party.Phil Cornthwaite, Vancouver, BC, Canada

<p> Thank God that Ken Clarke is running for leader. Like many Tories
 I have sat back in complete despair in recent years at what
 has happened to the Conservatives.Andrew Gardner, Wellingborough,
 UK

<p>He is far too old, and out of touch

<p>
Antony Forst, Stoke on Trent, UK

<p> We just do not want or need Ken Clarke as the next Tory leader.
 He is far too old, and out of touch. I hope David Davies is
 elected, he would be far better!Antony Forst, Stoke on Trent
 UK

<p> I am Liberal Democrat by instinct, but Ken Clarke strikes me
 very much as being a good solid one nation Tory- he is the only
 Tory I would vote for.Paul, London

<p> Regardless of his age, Ken Clarke is the one Tory with the common
 sense and independence of mind to really appeal to the uncommitted
 in this country, of which there are many. If the Tories elect
 another right wing leader then Labour will sail to a 4th term,
 not because the nation loves them but because they will be seen
 as the lesser of two evils.Brian Fargher, Birmingham, UK

<p> Ken Clarke is the man for the job, he was last time and the
 time before. The people who say he is too old are wrong. We
 need a knowledgeable person who has "been their and got the
 cardigan" to paraphrase. We need wisdom and that comes with
 age. Tony Blair was young and as befits someone of his age -
 no wisdom - no cardigan - not even a t-shirt. Other countries
 admire and listen to older people, they understand it is only
 with experience of life comes the wisdom. So vote for Ken Clarke
 and bring the respect back into politics.Sandra Warde, Stockport

<p> It seem strange to me that some dismiss Clarke as being too
 old to lead when he is still younger than the average Tory party
 member.John Lawrence, Southampton, UK

<p>Please Conservative members, do Britain a favour, elect Clarke
 so that finally we can have a real alternative to Labour 

<p>
Philip Prise, Aberdeen, Scotland

<p> All this talk of Clarke being too old is ridiculous. Churchill
 was the same age when he led Britain through World War Two.
 As a 26 year old disillusioned Labour voter I for one would
 certainly vote for a Clarke led Conservative Government. This
 is the real brain behind Britain's economic success not Brown.
 Please Conservative members, do Britain a favour, elect Clarke
 so that finally we can have a real alternative to Labour. I
 believe firmly that had Clarke been elected last time, Blair
 and co. would not be in power right now. Philip Prise, Aberdeen,
 Scotland

<p> Ken Clarke is yesterday's man. He was the man to lead the party
 when they selected Hague and Ian Duncan Smith. The electorate
 at the next general elections will be very different from the
 electorate 8 years ago.

<p> I'm a floating voter and I've voted for all three leading parties
 in my time, but I have to say that if the Tories elect Clarke
 as leader, they will secure my vote for the next election. I
 suspect however that they won't. Politicians with credibility,
 integrity and honesty such as Charles Clarke never seem to get
 the top jobs.Barry, London, UK

<p> At last! I'd back Clarke any day of the week! We need someone
 to lead the country who isn't afraid to say it how it is. You
 have to break a few eggs to make an omelette, and we can no
 longer afford to tip-toe around the real issues like terror,
 crime and immigration because of some people's sensitivity and
 because of political correctness.Paul Hartley, Nottingham, UK

<p>It would be the most sensible thing the Tory's have done in a
 decade

<p>
Sandy Hall, Stirling, Scotland

<p>Doubt he will win as it would be the most sensible thing the
 Tory's have done in a decade. It could get them elected!!!Sandy
 Hall, Stirling, Scotland

<p> Ken Clarke is the only candidate who could win an election for
 the Tories. It's that simple.Peter, London

<p> Ken Clarke is the only realistic alternative to Tony Blair and
 Gordon Brown. If the Tories wish to return from the political
 wilderness then they should choose him. He is the only one that
 would persuade me to vote Tory.Ian, Coventry, UK

<p> Oh ye Tory faithful, you made the mistake twice. Don't make
 the same mistake again. I a disillusioned Labour supporter will
 find no hesitation in voting for a Tory party led by Ken Clarke
 who for me is more left leaning than Tony Blair. Tony Blair
 has presided over a Labour Party which has ruined many people's
 aspirations of a better future. Not to mention the chaos and
 havoc Tony Blair has unleashed in Iraq and the effect this has
 had on international terror. Gordon Brown is also tainted by
 Tony Blair's nasty neo-con policies, so Ken Clarke will be a
 refreshing change. Bring him on quickly so he can get on with
 giving Labour a bloody nose.YK, UK

<p> The choice for the Tories is straight forward, but not simple:
 pick Ken and become electable or remain truer to the opinions
 of the grass roots of the party.Onisillos Sekkides, London,
 UK

<p>Kenneth Clark is just another remnant of the past 

<p>
Jon, Australia

<p> Kenneth Clark is just another remnant of the past. A new more
 youthful leader is needed. Can't the Tories find a more trust
 worthy conservative version of Tony Blair?Lincoln Jon, Australia

<p> How sad, like the Tory image he's too worn and outdated. I cannot
 honestly think of any of their party who could inject any enthusiasm
 to woo the voters (who are getting younger each election)!Tim
 McMahon, Pennar/Wales

<p> As a neutral myself I believe Ken Clarke has a strong ministerial
 presence. I think most of the population would place confidence
 in his statesmanship if he were to be the next Prime Minister.
 I've met him in a very ordinary way and he expressed an interest
 in who I was and what I did and this was not during the run
 up to an election or solicited. Outside of political opinion,
 I think he's a genuinely personable individual and deserves
 to be given the opportunity to prove himself at the highest
 level. Nick Smith, Dartmouth, UK

<p> Another victory for the labour party!!Ian, London

<p> The majority of Britons opposed the invasion of Iraq from the
 beginning. Did Ken Clark? His speech was not for his leadership
 campaign, it was his first speech to the people. It does not
 matter who is in power, Britain will be dragged into any conflict
 that America chooses. Has Ken Clark got the guts to tell the
 USA where to go, next time they feel trigger happy? I doubt
 it.Mark Grogan, Liverpool, England

<p>I do not want the Tories back in power but I do want some viable
 opposition to create the check and balance against a dominant
 government. Ken Clarke is the only Tory I've any time for! He's
 a level-headed bloke who doesn't spout hot air but instead talks
 a lot of common sense. Get Clarke in as Tory Leader and for
 pity's sake rein in President Blair! Colin, Portsmouth, UK

<p> Ken Clarke's has had his day. He remains pro-European, all that
 has changed is the economic conditions around the euro. He is
 still a subscriber to the 'euro dream' (nightmare). David Davis
 is the Tories best hope, he is normal for heaven's sake and
 that's what we northern Tories need. Someone who came from a
 normal working class background and has the sort of common sense
 views that the vast majority of people share.Andrew, Hull, Yorkshire

<p> He is this generation's Churchill. If he fails to win the leadership
 then the Conservative party will be in freefall and that is
 no exaggeration. It is not youth or grey men that the party
 needs - it needs a life and soul transplant urgently.R, UK

<p> I'm somebody who after the Thatcher and Major years would never
 vote Tory on principle but Clarke may make me stop and think
 before voting for one of the other main parties. I think he
 may be to pro-big business.Andy, Wirral

<p> Kenneth Clarke has about as much chance of being made leader,
 as I have getting my comments posted on here. Hard luck Ken.Jez,
 Durham

<p>The only really credible contender 

<p>
Ian Watson, United Kingdom

<p> The only really credible contender that has any experience of
 running a country. If he managed to win an election and became
 PM, at least he would reverse some of the damage and harm that
 Blair has done to us and to people across the planet. The conservatives
 will only get my vote if Ken is elected leader, the rest are
 just Blair shadows.Ian Watson, United Kingdom

<p> When Tony Blair was proved wrong over the EU constitution, he
 did his absolute best to avoid taking any criticism for it.
 When Ken Clarke was proved wrong over the Euro, he admitted
 it. He is one of a dying breed of politicians - even if you
 don't agree with his politics, at least the man is honest which
 is more than I can say for the top brass in either party.David
 Russell, Glasgow, Scotland

<p> I have always voted labour in the past but will not vote labour
 next time. Whether I vote at all or vote Tory will depend on
 whether Ken Clarke is elected leader. I won't give my vote to
 any other Tory as Ken Clarke is the only one I trust to have
 any common sense.Andy Ellis, Bristol UK

<p>I've concluded that he's just out of touch

<p>
Robin Davies, Carmarthen, Wales

<p> After Clarke's comments about the Iraq war and terrorism, I've
 concluded that he's just out of touch. And that's without my
 worries on his links with tobacco and his views on Europe.Robin
 Davies, Carmarthen, Wales

<p> Are the Tories deliberately seeking leadership candidates from
 Saga? Hague, IDS, Howard - the facts speak for themselves -
 this course is one to failure. There must be a charismatic,
 young, intelligent Tory out there who can step up and steer
 the Tories into the 21st century? Mark, London / New York

<p> At last the disenfranchised majority who opposed the Iraq debacle
 may have a spokesman who, with a bit of luck will bring down
 Blair's' dictatorship.Mark, Wigan UK

<p>The Tory party has to get rid of its fuddy-duddy image

<p>
Paul Boundy, Dorchester, Dorset

<p> Ken Clarke may have made a good leader 20 years ago but it's
 too late for him now. He has already lost two elections for
 leader so doesn't he get the message? The Tory party has to
 get rid of its fuddy-duddy image and electing a leader who is
 nearly 70 will not help.Paul Boundy, Dorchester, Dorset

<p> I'm a staunch Labour supporter and Ken Clarke is the only Tory
 I have any time for. He was the only decent Chancellor the Tories
 had in their 18 years of mis-rule. And he is one of the few
 with enough sense to see that the UK is actually in Europe and
 not 3,000 miles away across the Atlantic with the USA.D. Burton,
 Birmingham

<p> If Clarke led the Tories to victory in 2009, he would only be
 a 'caretaker' PM, serving only 1 term and laying the ground
 for a younger successor. That strategy could backfire at the
 following election and lead to Labour winning again in 2013.
 Do the Tories want to get in for only 4 years, or do they want
 another 13 year stint? Tim, Gillingham, UK

<p> If Ken had been elected leader 8 years ago Blair would not be
 in government now. Britain desperately needs a strong opposition
 and Ken is the only choice for Conservative leader. Sadly I
 predict he will not get in, the Tories will be confined to an
 indefinite period in the wilderness and it will be entirely
 self-inflicted and well deserved. Hopefully the Lib Dems will
 rise to the challenge and fill the void. Phil, Birmingham

<p>All his candidacy will do is draw votes away from more promising
 centrist candidates

<p>
Daniel Kitto, Norwich, UK

<p> Clarke cannot win; he has alienated too many people from all
 sections of the party. All his candidacy will do is draw votes
 away from more promising centrist candidates, so ensuring another
 victory for a hard right-winger blindly determined to just rehash
 the already failed policies of Duncan Smith and Howard and keeping
 the Tories in the political wilderness for another two terms
 at least. As so often in the past, Ken puts his overweening
 personal ambition ahead of the interests of the party; this
 time the damage done may be irreparable.Daniel Kitto, Norwich,
 UK

<p> I'm 24 and I'd vote for him. His age is of no consequence; we've
 had older leaders before, and in any case, being 65-70 years
 old today is very different to being 65-70 a few decades ago.
 He's an honest, straight-talking alternative to the Labour spin.Stephen,
 London, UK

<p> If the Conservative Party have any sense then they will vote
 Ken in as leader. Years of being rudderless and un-dynamic in
 leadership haven't been helped by the loss of the only other
 charismatic figure in the party in Boris Johnson. I think Ken's
 recent remarks concerning the euro and Europe have been sensible
 because the political and economic landscape has changed now.
 Good luck to Ken and here's hoping for some strong opposition
 to a poor and misguided Government!Tammy Fevrier, North London

<p> Conservative Party members were roundly criticised for their
 lack of judgment in electing the predictably hopeless Ian Duncan
 Smith as leader. Actually, we didn't - we voted against Kenneth
 Clarke. We just weren't offered a feasible alternative candidate
 by the bone-headed MPs. We would do exactly the same again -
 we would sooner vote for Beelzebub than Clarke. We would even
 be prepared to see the Conservative Party spend another 5 (or
 more) years in the wilderness, rather than vote for him. Why?
 Simple answer - Europe.David, Oxford

<p> If people haven't got any problems with John Prescott's two
 Jaguars, they also should not have any problems with Ken Clark's
 cigars or his interest in the tobacco industry. Cigarettes are
 still the poor man's pleasure which is highlighted by the current
 campaign to disallow smoking in public places. Also the tobacco
 industry creates a lot of jobs and contributes substantial amounts
 in taxes to the exchequer.Dagmar, London, UK

<p> I have never voted Tory and in all likelihood never will. However,
 it doesn't take a genius to work out that if they elect a leader
 to appeal to the party roots then they will not regain power
 in the foreseeable future, therefore I would see Ken Clarke
 as a viable leader in order for the nation to have a real opposition
 party. Neil, London, UK

<p> Politics is all about personalities - policies come second.
 Ken has the charisma and natural leadership skills to win the
 next election, and give Messrs Blair and Brown a run for their
 money from here on in.Bill Saunders, Truro, UK

<p>Once Blair goes Gordon Brown will reveal his true left wing colours
 and lose the next election whoever is Tory leader

<p>
Roger, Stockport, England

<p> Unfortunately Ken Clarke's election would be too late. The Tories
 would be in better shape if he'd beaten William Hague or IDS.
 The Tories problem is that New Labour have stolen a lot of their
 policies and have raised taxes by stealth rather than their
 previous direct methods. However, once Blair goes Gordon Brown
 will reveal his true left wing colours and lose the next election
 whoever is Tory leader.Roger, Stockport, England

<p> Ken is the only man that can lead the Tories to victory - they
 certainly have my vote if he wins. When will Tory grassroots
 wake up and see that Ken is the only man that take them to power!John
 Jellema, 

<p> Ken Clarke is the man for the job. Many people have said this
 before. Ken is the man who can stop Britain descending into
 a nightmare scene from a George Orwell novel and undo some of
 the harm that Blair has stricken our country with. Not to mention
 the numerous white elephants the loony left still have in store
 for us. Go get 'em, Ken!Andy Bird, Cheshire, UK

<p> He has a good chance of leadership simply because (for a change)
 people actually know who he is.Ali, Glasgow

<p> Gladstone was 82 when he became prime minister for the final
 time, Palmerston did not become PM until the age of 71 and was
 then re-elected at the age of 75, Churchill resigned at 81,
 Disraeli became PM for the final time aged 69 - Maybe the older
 the greater!Nicholas M, London

<p>The Tories must start thinking about who is the best candidate
 to reverse the country's flagging fortunes

<p>
Gabriel Hershman, Lisbon

<p> Clark is too much yesterday's man. I doubt his health would
 stand up to the demands of the top job. Also, he's more of a
 management figure, good at running the economy, but in today's
 Britain the biggest problems are crime, violence and this culture
 of hooliganism that pervades everything. The Tories must start
 thinking about who is the best candidate to reverse the country's
 flagging fortunes, rather than their own. Gabriel Hershman,
 Lisbon

<p> I am so disappointed that we are living in the past. I was hoping
 for a younger and vibrant forward thinking leader. We might
 as well stay with Michael Howard and save all the cut and thrust.
 If we are frightened of new faces then bring back William Hague!Pam,
 UK

<p> At last - the Tories may come to their senses and give us an
 opposition and maybe a government!R Chapman, London UK

<p> As an ex labour party member I had hoped for a Clarke/Portillo
 ticket at the last election, which I would have voted for. Age
 should not be a boundary and I would definitely vote for Ken
 in the next election over Blair/Brown or Kennedy who want to
 tax child free citizens to the point of poverty. Europeans covet
 age and wisdom, would we rather have a 50 year old Bush clone
 or a 65 year old Ken Clarke?Neil, Chertsey UK

<p>They need to elect someone much younger 

<p>
Debbie Scott, Dover, Kent, England

<p> No chance! He is just as out of touch as all the rest of the
 Tories! He certainly will not appeal to existing Labour voters
 nor the youngsters! If they are to stand any chance of getting
 back into power, they need to elect someone much younger to
 lead them!Debbie Scott, Dover, Kent, England

<p> If Ken Clarke becomes Tory leader then they will lose me as
 a voter and supporter. He is too old and a leopard doesn't change
 its spots over Europe.Brian Stephen, Aberdeen, UK

<p> I am a young voter - only twice registered preference in a general
 election and voted Labour on both occasions. The Tory party
 has never even registered on my radar when considering votes.
 Unlike the majority of Tory MPs however there is something of
 the right about Ken and he commands the respect of the working
 classes in a way that no other Tory MP does. He's an oldie but
 nevertheless appeals to the younger audience that at the moment
 it just doesn't touch.Keith, London

<p> Ken Clarke is the best hope for the Conservative party. His
 immense experience and Commons performances are sorely missed.
 Forget Europe for the moment, let's concentrate on getting into
 power.Dennis Fyfe, Derby, England

<p>People who question Ken's age only do so because they are unable
 to question his record

<p>
James, London, UK

<p> As a Conservative activist in their mid twenties I have been
 dismayed by all the negative campaigning the Davis and Cameron
 camps have indulged in over Ken Clarke's age. Ken's appeal to
 voters is based on his extensive experience of both government
 and business, his reputation as a politician of principle and
 his refreshingly unspun personal style. So far those who mutter
 and moan about a Clarke leadership bid have failed to produce
 any kind of credible polling which shows the former Chancellor's
 age is an issue for anyone outside of the magic circle of acolytes
 around David Cameron. People who question Ken's age only do
 so because they are unable to question his record, character
 or appeal. For David Cameron it has now become a case of when,
 not if, he should withdraw from the contest. Ken for Number
 10!James, London, UK

<p> The Tories must be barking mad if they think this man can lead
 the party to an election victory. I don't understand how it
 is the opinion polls put him in the lead - he was part of the
 cabinet that nearly busted us and he proposed measures that
 might have ruined the country further. Frankly his licence to
 practice politics should be withdrawn. Jeremy Spencer, Shifnal,
 Shropshire, UK

<p> If Ken Clarke is not elected by his fellow MP's due to his age,
 could he sue them under the new Age Discrimination Act?Ian,
 Marlow UK

<p> He is the best man for the job, unless William Hague wants to
 stand againDave, Manchester

<p> I am a life long Conservative voter and have worked hard to
 get my local conservative MP elected at each election. However
 if Ken Clarke becomes leader I - and I suspect tens of thousands
 of other Conservatives - will no longer support the party. He
 does not stand for the sort of values and the sort of Britain
 I believe in and will only fracture the party and make it permanently
 unelectable. Richard Tyndall, Newark, England 

<p>I think people will welcome a straight talking man as Tory leader

<p>
Bob, Winchester

<p> I think Ken Clarke is the ideal candidate. Far from wanting
 more youthful, media - focused heavily styled politics. I think
 people will welcome a straight talking man as Tory leader. The
 contrast between him and the choreographed leadership of Blair
 and Brown will make Ken feel like a breath of fresh air. The
 Tories need to offer this alternative to Labour spin. If they
 decide instead to focus on media presentation and youth they'll
 just end up being a pale imitation of new Labour. And this is
 what even Labour voters are sick to the back teeth of!Bob, Winchester

<p> Just when I thought it might be safe to vote Tory, along comes
 another one of Thatcher's old boys. Is this as good as it gets,
 God help us. Gordon Brown must be so happy. Marcello Ramasso,
 Kings Lynn UK

<p> I do hope the Tories have the good sense to pick Ken Clarke.
 He is the only candidate that is electable. David Davies is
 far too right wing (reminiscent of IDS) and will not reach beyond
 the core vote. David Cameron is not yet experienced enough (reminiscent
 of William Hague), Brown would make mincemeat of him. I am sincerely
 hoping for a Clarke/Cameron dream ticket to boot out this awful
 Government.Carl, Cambridge

<p> He is from the last generation of discredited Tory politicians.
 If the Tories want to be electable they need a fresh start with
 a young leader - something similar to what Labour did with Blair
 and a creating a break with past associations. If Clarke wins
 then Labour will win a fourth term Tony, Cardiff

<p> Ken Clarke has a proven record. He was a reformer at the department
 of health and a very solid chancellor; let's not forget that
 Gordon Brown inherited a very strong economy thanks largely
 to Ken Clarke. His Achilles Heel has always been Europe but
 like all great politicians he is listening to the people. The
 Euro has been unpopular on the mainland and the fiasco over
 the constitution is making people question more "pro-European"
 arguments. I fancy it will be harder for him to win the party
 than to win the country but should he succeed the Labour party
 will have a real fight on their hands.Michael Murphy, Le Marche,
 Italy

<p> I've always voted Conservative, but if Clarke is the candidate
 at the next General Election, I won't be voting at all. I refuse
 to vote Labour or Lib Dem - but I will not give my vote to this
 man. Christy, Newcastle, UK

<p> I am a Labour Party member but I would look forward to PMQs
 with Ken Clarke and Tony Blair. The Pope started at the age
 of 78 and Nelson Mandela was released from prison at the age
 of 71. Ken is a young bloke.Richard Sloan, Castleford, West
 Yorkshire

<p> Ken Clarke is refreshingly unlike Blair - better a mature, overweight
 cigar smoker than a bouffant haired poser with an electric guitar!
 But what is his real position on Europe? We need someone to
 lead this country, not relinquish control to the EU. Ian, Kent

<p>Probably the right man for the job, probably the wrong man for
 the part

<p>
Rod Main, Newhaven, UK

<p> Ken Clark is much more your average "bloke" than lots of other
 Tories I could mention. However, he'd probably be willing and
 able to help the European mess get resolved in a positive way
 but for those anti-Europe members of his party, that would be
 a step too far. Probably the right man for the job, probably
 the wrong man for the party. Rod Main, Newhaven, UK

<p> A lot has been done recently to progress the anti-smoking campaign.
 With Ken Clarke's strong connections to the tobacco industry
 either those with morals will turn away from any party he leads,
 or the whole campaign will lose credibility with him as leader
 he the Tories came back to power. Ken Clarke as leader will
 be the final nail in the coffin of the Tory party for many voters.Teena,
 England

<p> Ken Clark is the best leader that the Tories have. His age isn't
 an issue nor his work with a tobacco company (from comments
 I've seen you'd have thought that tobacco was a Grade 1 drug).
 His one big issue is his credibility over his views on Europe.Greg,
 St Albans

<p> The Tory party needs to completely shed its previous Thatcher
 image. That means Ken Clarke too. It's time for a young leader
 with new ideas and the strengths of conviction to change the
 party in to a modern and forward looking party that can offer
 Britons some real policies without the wait and see voter catching
 attitude of the recent leaders. I am sure this is what the majority
 of the Tory voters want to see. Jay Kandy, London

<p> Why are the Tories so obsessed with Europe? Short of moving
 the UK into the middle of the Atlantic we are stuck in Europe.
 To win the next election any candidate must have plausible domestic
 policies and Ken Clarke is the only candidate with a successful
 track record on the domestic front. Susan, Birmingham

<p>Ken Clarke is the only leader that could deliver

<p>
Leon, Brighton

<p> I have never voted Conservative but would love for the current
 Government to have some strong, credible opposition. Ken Clarke
 is the only leader that could deliver this and someone that
 I would feel comfortable leading the country, despite my significant
 Tory reservations.Leon, Brighton, UK

<p> No-one who lines the pockets of a tobacco firm like Clarke is
 should ever be in a position to influence, never mind run, the
 NHS.Mark Malik, Teesside, UK

<p> Is this the best the Conservatives can do? Clarke was supposed
 to be pro-Euro and pro European. We now hear he considers both
 a failure! He is another politician who shows no consistency
 in his arguments. Power at all costs - end of.DC, UK

<p> I wish Ken Clarke good luck, but suspect the Conservatives haven't
 got the political good sense to elect him as leader. If they
 don't, there must be a high probability that an apathetic electorate
 will allow New Labour in for a fourth term. David Anderson,
 Wakefield, West Yorkshire

<p>Ken is no longer a serious contender for leader of the party

<p>
Richard Glover, Redruth, Cornwall

<p> If British politics were not so dull at the moment, this story
 would be treated with humour rather than considered debate.
 Ken is no longer a serious contender for leader of the party,
 let alone the country, and the fact that some Tories see him
 as even an outside possibility shows how few real candidates
 there are. Too much looking back, not enough moving forwards.Richard
 Glover, Redruth, Cornwall

<p> The most likely effect of Ken Clarke standing for leader will
 be to split the moderate Tory vote. David Cameron has already
 made it clear that he is unwilling to step aside so Centre-left
 conservative MPs will be left to choose between the party's
 short term electoral chances or its long term future. Obviously
 what they'll actually end up with is David Davis as leader and
 will find themselves stuck in the same rut they've been in since
 1997.B Gardner, Reading

<p> To those are knocking him for his age remember the greatest
 Prime Minister this country ever had was Churchill and how old
 was he!.John, Birmingham UK

<p>There are more hurdles to his career aspirations now than ever

<p>
C Brown, UK

<p> Ken Clarke will be knocking 70 by the time of the next election.
 Even if he could get elected PM (ie if the electorate ignore
 his swing to anti-EU, his age and the baggage of his political
 past), it would be unlikely that he would stand a second term.
 As valued as his plain talking and charisma is, there are more
 hurdles to his career aspirations now than ever.C Brown, UK

<p> Ken Clarke is the man for the job. I have to invest my all with
 our leader. He is the only politician I feel I could trust.Doug,
 Oldham, UK

<p> Don't the Tories realise all the old guard still being there
 is the reason they won't win next time round. They need fresh
 blood in charge. Ken Clarke may be a good politician but he
 can't change the publics view of the party.Brendan, Manchester

<p> I have never voted Tory in the whole of my 58 years. However,
 should Ken Clarke become leader I would. He is a no nonsense
 politician who does what is best for the country. He will always
 give a straight answer to any question, something that most
 politicians cannot do especially this rabble who are leading
 us now. Blair and company are made to look credible because
 the Tories have been so gutless over the last decade, their
 fear of Europe has affected their choice of leader since the
 major government. It is about time they realised that unless
 they grasp the nettle people like me will never vote for them.
 Ken Clarke never played politics with education, health or the
 economy - he did what he felt was right. Had it not been for
 Ken the national economy would not have been in such good shape
 when Labour took over. If the Tories get it wrong again this
 time round they will be doomed, there is just no one else of
 any credibility amongst their ranks who appears to be leadership
 material.Al, England

<p> If he runs I'll vote for him despite a 20-year antipathy to
 everything Tory. Voting for "yoof" got us Tony. If the Conservative
 Party has a sudden burst of sanity and stops judging every candidate
 by their Euro credentials alone, we could have a real election
 contest.Rick H, Horley, Surrey

<p> It's been worth the wait. Cigar or no cigar, Europe or no Europe.
 Intelligence with charisma - Ken's the man. I've waited 10 years
 for this.Pegan, Sheffield

<p>I will question my loyalty to the party

<p>
Daphne Lovell, Newmarket, England

<p> I am a card carrying Conservative but in the unlikely event
 of Ken Clarke winning the leadership race I will question my
 loyalty to the party. David Davies seems the best bet but isn't
 there someone with that extra oomph so that we can oust Blair?Daphne
 Lovell, Newmarket, England

<p> Ken has miles more experience than any other contender. Changing
 his mind over the Euro is not just so he can win the Tory leadership,
 he has admitted he was wrong. This proves to me that he can
 adapt and win the next election.John Wells, Wendover, Bucks

<p> I do hope that the UK will never join the fiasco of the Euro.
 Also I hope that Blair will sort the "EU Constitution" and Rebate
 issues now that he has the chance. Why going back to the past?
 I always liked Ken Clarke but I think his time has passed. Put
 a new face on top and don't remove him/her on the first sign
 of trouble: give the new leader some room to breath and to build
 a good team for the future.Sofia Pinto, Lisbon, Portugal

<p> If we want a change away from the unrelentingly juvenile style
 of politics we suffer from at the moment, Ken Clarke would be
 an excellent choice. His affability and good humour mean that
 his exchanges with others don't immediately degenerate into
 a slanging match. His experience and gravitas also mean that
 on the international stage he is likely to be taken seriously
 in a way that Tony Blair could only dream of. And that is coming
 from an habitual Labour voter!Jonathan Allenby, Brighton, UK

<p> I never fail to be amazed at how narrow minded my fellow Britons
 can be. Ken Clarke's age is of no consequence; with age comes
 experience. Tony Blair was young when he became Prime Minister.
 Did it do the country any good? Had he held an authoritative
 position of office? No. Look what happened. Ken Clarke is not
 suddenly anti-Euro. Read the article. He said (I paraphrase)
 that the Euro had not lived up to its expectations. That's an
 authoritative comment from a knowledgeable person. Ken Clarke
 has a young, inquiring, questioning mind honed in government.
 Neither of the other two candidates has had such a range of
 experience.John, Brussels, Belgium

<p> I'm a Labour voter and I hope the Tory party isn't sensible
 enough (I doubt it is) to put Ken Clarke in charge; he's the
 only person who could realistically beat Brown next time.Mark,
 

<p>David Davis is going to walk it

<p>
Phil, Stafford

<p> Sorry Ken, but taking off the string of onions, the striped
 jumper and the beret at this late stage simply won't make any
 difference. David Davis is going to walk it. Phil, Stafford

<p> Politically, I am with Ken Clarke... a Tory and pro-Europe.
 But he is not the right man to lead a Tory government. Times
 have changed since he was last in government and we need a young,
 energetic, new-thinking leader to blast the Tories back into
 being a credible choice for government.Ellen, London

<p> Too old, too late, Ken. Give up. I was looking forward to Tim
 Yeo throwing his hat in the ring. Oh well. Once again, a lapsed
 Tory voter will remain so.Jonty Sexton, UK

<p> A return to Thatcher's times - if he's in it'll be time to say
 goodbye to low interest rates, low unemployment and no recessions.Dominic,
 Matlock, UK

<p> His age is not a problem. He is experienced, plausible, knowledgeable,
 but he cannot be trusted over the Euro or the constitution so
 sorry I would not vote Conservative if he were leader. Robin,
 UK

<p>Do we really want the leftovers from the 80s?

<p>
Gordon Hayward, Swindon

<p> Do we really want the leftovers from the 80s and 90s to run
 the Tory party? If the Conservatives really want to be a serious
 political party again they have to have policies that will attract
 myself and the millions of others who are looking to UKIP for
 leadership and a convenient repentance for supporting the euro
 is hardly a convincing start.Gordon Hayward, Swindon UK

<p> Go for it Ken, you're the best man for the job and your age
 won't matter a jot (and that's coming from a 22-year-old). We've
 had much older prime ministers. It's time Blair and Brown got
 a good thrashing and you can give it to them.James Wakefield,
 Bingley, UK

<p> Presumably Mr Clarke is looking to secure a hat-trick of rejections
 from the Conservative Party, each time under a different set
 of election rules.Simon, Gosport, United Kingdom

<p>Why should we trust anyone who changes their views just to win?

<p>
Rob Stone, Stafford, UK

<p> Oh, what a coincidence. A pro-euro view caused him to lose the
 last two leadership contests, and now he is suddenly anti-euro.
 What a surprise! Why should we trust anyone who changes their
 views just to win?Rob Stone, Stafford, UK

<p>Ken is probably the best leader for the party. He is a shrewd,
 intelligent gentleman who embodies the best characteristics
 of the Conservative party. Ken Clarke could make the Tories
 electable. And the country needs that!Steve Korbey, Canada (UK
 ex pat)

<p> This is a disaster. How on earth could he possibly think the
 electorate would want a 65-year-old to lead them? Get your act
 together Tories and find yourselves a charismatic leader, or
 resign yourselves to another 10 years in the political wilderness.L,
 UK

<p> I have voted Conservative for over 30 years and I have always
 had a great respect and admiration for Ken Clarke but I will
 not vote Conservative if he is leader because I would not trust
 him on the European issue and its republican bias. R Chamberlain,
 Bolton Lancs

<p>After electing the "quiet man" nothing would surprise me!!

<p>
Chris Simpson, Symington

<p> The Tories are not electable - he is the only candidate who
 could change this, but I fear the party may make the wrong decision
 yet again, after electing the "quiet man" nothing would surprise
 me!Chris Simpson, Symington, Scotland

<p> At retirement age Clarke is a hopeless contender. If the Conservatives
 win the next election he would be serving as Prime Minister
 well into his seventies.Jonathan Owen, Cannock, England

<p> Ken Clarke is probably the only politician that will give an
 honest answer to a straightforward question, and is the only
 Tory that has any chance of getting my vote, despite the huge
 tax increases under Brown. Just a shame that the Tories will
 be far too euro-sceptic to make him leader.Darren, Portsmouth,
 Hampshire


