
URL: http://tblogs.bootsnall.com/boo
<h> November 03, 2004 

<p>Crocodile Cafe Seattle

<p>That night a few of us when to a bar and music venue called the
 Crocodile Café. It’s one of the places that I’d heard about
 before I went to Seattle and wanted to visit as they have some
 really great bands play there. Earlier in the week I’d seen
 an advertisement for a ‘Morrissey Tribute Night’ and it sounded
 great however I was planning to move on from Seattle by the
 time it was on, therefore I’d completely forgotten about it.
 We went to the bar and ordered drinks, me, Sally skydive and
 another girl, Dan the very quiet Israeli (?) slightly odd bloke,
 and a cute long haired Aussie guy. After an hour or so we decided
 to check out the music and lo and behold it was the ‘Morrissey
 Night’ I was gutted I hadn’t realised and we’d missed the first
 4 bands. I was a little drunk and spent the next 10 minutes
 trying to figure out if any of the bands had played ‘This Charming
 Man’ my favourite Smiths song. In the process Sally and I got
 chatting to 2 guys who were brothers from Mexico, they had the
 accents but didn’t look Mexican at all. We watched the bands
 and it was a great night especially when a drunken Dan decided
 he wanted to get on stage and literally just walked through
 a door and 2 minutes later appeared on the stage! 

<h> September 06, 2004 

<p>Vodka Jello and Gummi Body Parts!

<p>Saturday 15 May 04

<p>Today I went to a Street Festival in the ‘U’ district (the part
 of town where the University campus and housing is located).
 I took the bus up there with Megan (19 year old rock chick from
 the Mid-West, Megan is loud but very sweet and has an infectious
 sense of fun) and Daniel (26 year old guy I think from Colorado,
 he was one of the coolest people I met, I liked him for the
 same reasons I like Seattle, he was laid back but not lazy he
 always seemed to have something to say or do but never seemed
 to need to try too hard or worry about anything too much). We
 spent a few hours walking around the stalls looking at jewellery
 and arts and crafts. Daniel got distracted by a guy selling
 drums and ended up playing the drums with the guy for about
 an hour! I had my back checked out by a Chiropractor which was
 kind of odd, sitting in a chair in the street while some guy
 feels your spine and then tells you that the reason you get
 migraine could be caused by one of your vertebrae being out
 of alignment?? We ate noodles while watching bands and street
 performers. We saw a great Bluegrass band called ‘The Haggis
 Brothers’ and some pretty good indie rock bands. We also saw
 some street performers doing the thing that’s kind of like dance
 but also a bit like martial arts, or Tai Chi, I don’t know what
 it’s called but it was pretty cool to watch.

<p>When Megan, Daniel and I got back to the Hostel we started to
 arrange a party for Megan’s birthday. Hillary a new girl in
 my room but who knew Megan and Daniel because she’d stayed at
 the Hostel a few weeks earlier, set about making Vodka Jello
 while the boys went to buy beer. Megan and I were tasked with
 going to the Sex Shop round the corner to buy ‘Gummi Body Parts’!!
 We thought it would be fun to ‘bob’ in the Vodka Jello for candy
 shaped like male and female anatomy. Well our task ended up
 being a mission because the place round the corner didn’t have
 them, they sent us a couple of blocks over to another place,
 but they were out too, by the time we got to the third place
 we couldn’t be bothered to look round the store and just walked
 up to the counter ‘Excuse me but do you have any gummi boobs?’.
 Fortunately they did have them otherwise it might have seemed
 a somewhat ridiculous question.

<p>We had a great party, I admit I got pretty drunk which was possibly
 due to Hillary using a litre of Vodka for the Jello and Megan
 feeding everyone it from a huge serving spoon! 

<h> July 30, 2004 

<p>French Toast & Karaoke?!!

<p>Day 7 – Thursday

<p>Today started out as a lazy day, I slept through breakfast (doh!)
 however that did mean I could indulge myself in one of my favourite
 American foods. French Toast. The desk guy at the Hostel (John
 aka the fountain of all knowledge) recommended ‘The Athenian’
 in Pike Place Market. It reminded me of a pub with a cosy café
 atmosphere. I sat at the counter, and had luscious French toast,
 coffee, juice and a slice of melon. It was a great breakfast
 and I loved sitting at the counter chatting to the girl serving,
 people watching, writing my diary and having my coffee refilled
 for free, I love that.

<p>Later that afternoon my friend Al came back from work and we
 decided as it was a nice evening we’d drive over to a place
 called Alki Beach over the bridge in West Seattle. We took a
 walk on the beach, collected ‘sea-glass’ (fragments of glass
 worn smooth by the sea) and enjoyed the views of the Seattle
 skyline over Puget Sound. We sat and watched the sun go down
 then went for a very nice meal in a Mediterranean restaurant,
 great Hummus and tasty Moroccan style Aubergine (Eggplant).

<p>When Al and I got back to the Hostel, I got roped into a going
 Country Dancing with Kevin and Sally and 2 other chaps from
 the Hostel, Daniel and Karl. Al unfortunately declined as he
 had to get up early for work. Anyway the 5 of us pile into this
 taxi and tell the driver the name of the club we want to go
 to. Problem is he doesn’t know where it is and after much deliberation
 someone mentions that there’s a gay bar that has Country night.
 So we end up in ‘Cuffs’ but it’s not Country night, it’s Karaoke!
 We started out with Goldschlager shots and beer chasers, now
 a word of warning shots in the US are almost 3 times bigger
 than shots in the UK. Fortunately or unfortunately depending
 on how you look at it a number of the patrons chose to sing
 Country songs so we got our Country dancing in anyway as well
 as a bit of ‘return to my teens’ headbanging to Guns ‘n’ Roses!
 

<p>Inhibitions were lost after the 3rd or 4th Goldschlager shots
 and things got very silly, Sally, Kevin & I decided to demonstrate
 the test of balance we’d done at the Science Museum the day
 before. This turned some heads, which is an impressive feat
 in a gay bar called Cuffs on Karaoke night! We had a fantastic
 night out, I can’t remember the last time I laughed so much,
 my face hurt the next day.

<h> July 27, 2004 

<p>Science, the Space Needle and Silliness

<p>Day 6 Wednesday

<p>Last night I made friends with another English girl, Sally. We
 were chatting with a guy, Kevin who was staying at the Hostel
 in between being out in the Ocean as an electrician on a fishing
 ship. Kevin knows Seattle fairly well and he told us that his
 favourite place to visit is the Pacific Science Museum. We agree
 that it’s sounds like fun, so next thing, Kevin’s on the phone
 to his boss and he says ‘I’m not coming in tomorrow because
 I’m taking 2 beautiful English girls to the Science Museum’.
 

<p>Next morning the three of us jump in a cab and head off to the
 museum. Kevin is like a little kid when we arrive and this is
 infectious, we have a great time ‘playing’ with the exhibits.
 My favourite was the biology section where we tested our flexibility,
 our strength and in one particularly silly test our centre of
 balance. We also played with Robots and puzzle games, we learnt
 about tides (where Kevin thought it would be fun to splash water
 at Sally & I), space, animals and computers, we saw a 3D movie
 called ‘Bugs’ in the IMAX cinema and spent a few pleasant if
 warm minutes in the tropical Butterfly Garden. All together
 a really fun day out, I’d recommend it with a friend and with
 or without kids. 

<p>After all that excitement we’re starving so for lunch we go to
 the Space Needle Restaurant. I would argue that this is the
 best way to enjoy the Space Needle experience. Lunch is a $25
 minimum spend per person but the food is excellent (I had coconut
 shrimp, a healthy portion of large luscious shrimp with great
 crispy fries and spicy coleslaw) and included is access to the
 viewing area which will cost you I think $10 anyway. Plus you
 get the added novelty of enjoying the 360° views as the restaurant
 slowly revolves.

<p>Sally and I insist that we pay for lunch because Kevin had paid
 for everything else up to that point in the day, however it
 came time to get the bill and Kevin, the sneak, had already
 paid! So not only did we have a great day but it was all courtesy
 of a very generous and kind electrician we’d only know for a
 couple of days. 

<p>One of the things which has most endeared me to the travelling
 life is the people that you meet and the way you can develop
 friendships in a matter of hours it seems. The friendships don’t
 always last but they make life on the road so much more fun.

<p>After lunch we relaxed by the fountain at the Seattle Centre,
 watching kids running in and out of the spray, then watching
 Kevin doing the same! As revenge for the earlier splashing incident
 Sally and I covertly purchased water pistols at a tacky tourist
 place. As Kevin returned from the fountain looking very pleased
 with him self as he’d managed to stay pretty dry we attacked!
 

<h> July 16, 2004 

<p>Culture and Cookery

<p>Tuesday - Day 5
 Today I was very lazy, I may have had a little
 too much microbrew and not enough Tacos during last night’s
 free hostel dinner. Anyway lunchtime rolled around and I was
 still hanging around the Hostel as was Naoko, another girl in
 my room. So we decided we’d do something together and we visited
 the Frye Art Gallery. 

<p>The Frye is a small free gallery which, when we went had 4 exhibitions.
 By far my favourite was an exhibition of poetry by local school
 children, the kids had visited the gallery then been tasked
 to write a poem about one of the pictures they’d seen. I spent
 about an hour reading these poems written by kids aged from
 about 6 up to 16. I laughed, I cried, I was touched and impressed
 by the things these kids had written and their interpretations
 of the paintings, totally enthralling and unique. 

<p>On the way back from the gallery Naoko and I were talking about
 cooking and Naoko said she couldn’t cook. She then proceeded
 to show me a picture on her camera, a picture of a SANDWICH!
 Naoko is 23 years old and a few weeks previously she had made
 her first sandwich and to celebrate took a picture of it! We
 were walking down one of the fairly steep hills in downtown
 Seattle at the time and we laughed so much I almost fell and
 went rolling down the street. It was really interesting to talk
 to someone who’s life experiences are so different to my own.
 Personally I learnt to cook as a child and at the age of 11
 when my Mum went back to full time work I was responsible for
 cooking the evening meal for our family. Anyway as a result
 of our conversation I decided, that evening I would cook for
 Naoko and a few other friends at the Hostel. I actually love
 cooking for others and get great pleasure when people enjoy
 what I have made.

<p>My speciality dish and on the menu that evening ……. Tomato and
 Rocket Risotto.

<p>My risotto when down fantastically, I made a big batch and it
 fed about 7 people including me! In thanks I was given a beer
 by each person with a full belly, result! 

<p>One of those beers was provided by Alfred, who after that night
 became my closest friend in the Hostel. It was ‘Open Mike’ night
 at the Hostel that night and I think my friendship with Al was
 cemented when I watched him play his mandolin. He played a song
 by a band called Belle & Sebastian, a Scottish band with a reasonable
 following but not their not exactly mainstream, they also happen
 to be possibly my favourite band on the planet. Not only did
 Al play a song by Belle & Sebastian he played my all time favourite
 song by Belle & Sebastian! No mean feet considering there’s
 5 albums and a number of EP’s worth of material to choose from.
 I was dumbstruck, here was this 22 year old guy from Connecticut
 playing a pretty obscure song, a song which I adore, I knew
 at that point that he and I would become friends.

<h> July 14, 2004 

<p>Pike Place - Fish & Giant Shoes?!

<p>Day 4 - Monday

<p>Today I thought I’d explore one of Seattle’s famous landmarks,
 Pike Place Market, home of fish throwing and the first Starbucks
 coffee shop. It’s also home to some interesting little shops
 and stalls. 

<p>I spent ages in a great book shop, the man behind the counter
 obviously loved books and he would spend time talking (not giving
 a sales pitch, just enjoying talking about books) to almost
 everyone who came in the store. I bought a battered but beautiful
 copy of ‘Catcher In The Rye’, a book I’ve been meaning to read
 for years but never got around to. I browsed in some unique
 and entertaining shops, I recommend the lower levels of the
 market and taking time to visit shops like: 

<p>* The shop that sells old Posters and Advertising, they have
 thousands of adverts taken from Magazines, I guess from around
 the 1920’s to 1950’s mostly, lovely to just browse for a while.
 
 * The magic shop with one of those fortune telling machines
 (like the one is the film ‘Big’) out in front.
 * The Comic
 store, I spent ages in here, comics, books, film and TV memorabilia,
 so good. I spent more money than I intended to here! I bought
 a set of 5 delightfully drawn books depicting the Japanese animation
 ‘Spirited Away’ or ‘Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi’.
 * The Giant
 Shoe Museum – just very, very odd!
 * Browse the Farmers Market
 and you’ll be offered tasters of everything from juicy cherries
 and slices of pear to chilli jelly and not least demonstrations
 of ‘The Copper Massager’ !

<p>The market has a pleasant atmosphere and despite throngs of tourists,
 no-one seemed too bothered by the leisurely pace which you’re
 forced to stick to. At home there always seems to be someone
 who’s in a hurry and is pushing past you in those situations.
 I have to admit that sometimes that person is me but on that
 day I didn’t mind doing ‘The Zombie’. ‘The Zombie’ is the name
 my friends and I give to the slow, shuffle way you walk when
 in a large crowd. 

<h> July 07, 2004 

<p>Homeless In Seattle - People that made me smile

<p>As with all cities as a vistor you will often encounter homeless
 people and sometimes they ask you for money, sometimes they
 make you sad and sometimes they make you smile. Here are some
 of the people who stuck out from my time in Seattle:

<p>1. The Man with the Sign
 At the far end of Pike Place Market
 I came across a middle aged black man with a large cardboard
 sign. I don’t remember what it said, something about why he
 needed money, but I do remember that he was shouting (in a nice
 way) at the people who passed him and who paid any attention
 to his sign. ‘Thank you for readin’ the sign, have a nice day’.
 While I was within ear shot he must have said this 2 dozen times.
 He must say it all day!

<p>2. The Man who though I was German 
 Walking down the street
 with a friend from the Hostel in Seattle, we were asked to buy
 something by this chap, I’m not sure what it was, clearly something
 dodgy, watches or something. Anyway when my friend says ‘No
 Thanks’ the chap says ‘What about your German girlfriend? Does
 she want one?’ I do not possess any of the stereotypical German
 features, it’s true I’m blonde but fairly obviously bottle blonde.
 Hmmmmm.

<p>3. The Girl doing the Experiment?
 Everyday a friend of mine
 from the Hostel walks past this girl on 2nd Ave. She has a sign
 which says ‘Trying to Raise $3.99 for a Big Mac and a Coke’.
 She never says anything, she does not hold out her hand and
 she has no cup/hat/vessel in which to collect said $3.99. She
 is well presented and well dressed and has a nice handbag. My
 friend has a theory that she’s doing a sociological experiment
 and is not in need of $3.99 for a Big Mac and a Coke. It’s quite
 odd and I must admit I did not give her any money.

<p>4. The Very Cheeky Chappy
 Not actually a homeless person (I
 don’t think so anyway). But an encounter which made me laugh
 all the same. On a particularly hot day, I was walking downtown
 wearing a vest (not low cut) and skirt (not very short), a man
 walks by me, he’s smart, wearing a business suit, maybe late
 30’s, anyway he mutters, almost under his breath, …….’Nice Tits’.
 Not to me, he wasn’t looking at me when he said it, it was as
 if he’d thought it and accidentally said it out loud. It was
 all I could do not to burst out laughing there and then!

<h> July 06, 2004 

<p>Relaxation for Body & Mind

<p>Sunday Morning in Seattle and again it was a beautiful day. I
 decided to visit the Japanese Gardens in Washington Park, to
 have a relaxing day and enjoy the sun. I caught a bus to the
 Park and again the bus driver was more than helpful in advising
 me where to get off and how to find the Garden. 

<p>I spent the next 2 and a half hours in the Garden it’s so beautiful.
 I walked around the immaculately landscaped paths, over bridges
 and dry streams looking at Japanese Maples, Wisteria, Water
 Lilies, the most vibrant blue Irises I’ve ever seen. I took
 some photos, watched as kids fed the Koi Carp. I sat on a bench
 enjoying the sun on my back whilst writing my journal. It was
 the perfect Sunday.

<p>That night in the Hostel, I spent time chatting with good people,
 drinking beer, giving Indian Head Massage, not necessarily in
 that order. I made some really great friends at the Hostel in
 Seattle and I enjoyed just hanging out there. I don’t know how
 other travellers feel but most of the people I met at the Hostels
 I stayed in, particularly the Green Tortoise Seattle were some
 of the most genuine people I’ve ever met and as a result some
 of the most interesting and enjoyable people to spend time with.
 I loved the fact that because so many travelling people have
 no agenda, and they don’t need to impress you, and they aren’t
 trying to sell you something, they can just be themselves. I
 found it easy to just be myself too. This was the most important
 lesson I’ve learnt in a long time. I’ve always tried to be myself
 but sometimes I felt like I had to try to be more like what
 people expect, or want from me, I always had the best intentions
 but I realised that it’s much easier to be myself and that that’s
 enough. This is something which I have carried with me since
 my travels and which I think will enhance my life in future.
 Travelling for me is about experiencing so many things from
 new places and people to new thoughts and ideas. Some of these
 things are fleeting and some will stay with me forever.

<h> June 30, 2004 

<p>Day2 - Sore Feet and Stupidity

<p>Ping! I’m awake, it’s 6am. At home I would have looked at the
 clock, realised I can reasonably stay in bed another couple
 of hours and still not miss the day. I would have gone back
 to sleep, woken at midday, cursing the fact that I’d missed
 half the day. However I’m not at home I’m on HOLIDAY!!!! The
 anticipation of the first real day of my holiday is too much,
 so I carefully climb out of bed, trying not to wake the other
 girls in my room and head off to the showers. I was warned about
 hostel shower rooms and urged to take ‘shower shoes’ (flip-flops)
 however the showers at the Green Tortoise Seattle although not
 exactly sparkling were certainly not in a bad state of cleanliness
 or repair. I was pleased and soon to be refreshed and ready
 to start the day.

<p>After my free breakfast of toast with PB&J, I love that stuff,
 (sometimes I think I was an American kid in a previous life).
 I head off to explore the city.

<p>It’s 7.30am on a Saturday morning in Seattle, the sun is shinning
 (am I lucky or is all that talk of rain just to put the tourists
 off?) and there’s hardly anyone around. It’s great I feel like
 the city is calm and it wants me to relax. I walk from the Hostel
 down 2nd Avenue through Belltown. I find ‘Singles Going Steady’
 a record shop that was recommended to me, get excited then realise
 it’s ten to eight in the morning, the place doesn’t open for
 like 3 hours or something! 

<p>I spent the next 4 hours walking around the city. I walked to
 the Seattle Centre, it was so quiet, a few people walking dogs
 or pushing babies around, there were a few homeless people still
 sleeping on benches but that’s just a part of life in any city.
 One fellow asked me for a cigarette, I gave him one, telling
 him it was a menthol, he pulled a bit of a face but took it
 anyway, he did not however thank me. I have to say that in general
 the homeless people in Seattle were never pushy and on a number
 of occasions actually made me smile, they are the ones I gave
 the quarters in my pocket to. 

<p>From the Seattle Centre I took the Monorail back downtown. Monorails
 have always been one of those things which disappoint me. I
 climb into the carriage and it feels like I’m at a theme park
 and then all it does is carry you across town. Meanwhile I’m
 sitting there expecting the ‘ride’ to suddenly lurch round a
 corner or hurtle downhill at tremendous speed. The Seattle monorail
 is very handy but it’s a short ride which doesn’t really show
 you much of the city and it’s not a white knuckle ride either!

<p>From 5th where the Monorail deposited me back downtown I decided
 to walk up to Capitol Hill. I’d found a gig in the local listings
 paper ‘The Stranger’ which looked like it might be my cup of
 tea. A band called ‘Stars of Track and Field’. They’re named
 after a song by Belle & Sebastian, who are one of my favourite
 bands, and the review suggested some other influences which
 I like the sound of too. So I decided to try and find the venue
 in advance and make sure I’d be OK to get a ticket. In addition
 I wanted to find Volunteer Park, I knew it was in vaguely the
 same area and seeing as it was such a beautiful day I thought
 a bit of sunning ones-self and a bit of writing might be in
 order.

<p>I must have walked 25 blocks, and I hadn’t found either the Park
 or the Venue (CHAC Capitol Hill Arts Centre). So I decided to
 stop for lunch, again 'The Stranger' was my guide and I had
 lunch in a Café they recommended ‘Café Septieme’ on Broadway.
 I had a delicious omelette with ‘home fries’ (my new favourite
 thing), lots of coffee, good people watching and the cutest
 waiter. I took advantage of this and asked him if he knew where
 the venue was, a good excuse to chat to him as well as gain
 useful information. 

<p>The venue for the gig I wanted to go to turned out to be just
 down the street and I was able to find out that I didn’t need
 a ticket and doors were at 8.30. I chatted for a while with
 the girl in the office and it wouldn’t be the first time that
 I was really touched by how friendly the people in Seattle are.
 

<p>After goodness knows how many more blocks I finally found Volunteer
 Park. The park is lovely there’s the Asian Art Museum, which
 I would have liked to visit but I felt that it would have been
 a shame to be inside on such a lovely day. There is also a little
 conservatory with orchids and tropical plants. The orchids are
 lovely but so delicate that they are behind a wire mesh which
 kind of spoils the viewing pleasure a little. There are other
 crazy looking plants which aren’t behind bars and it’s a cute
 little place to spent 30 minutes or so.

<p>The park also houses a water tower which I believe you can climb
 for a great view of the city. There is a reservoir type thingy
 which in it’s self isn’t very exciting but it clears the way
 for a pretty good view of the city even without climbing the
 tower. 

<p>I wandered round the park for a while and sat in the sun until
 it started to get cloudy and the wind picked up, that familiar
 ozone smell crept into my nose and I knew it was going to rain.
 I made my way to the bus stop to head back downtown and just
 made it to the shelter before the rains came. And came they
 did, the sky opened and the rain was bouncing off pavements
 and running down the road in streams within minutes. Being from
 the UK, I’m used to these type of sudden downpour, but back
 home I would have thought it a terrible nuisance. Instead I
 sat and watched as the things around me changed colour as the
 rain saturated them, smiled at unfortunate people who got caught
 without an umbrella, and didn’t mind getting wet when the bus
 came and I had to leave the shelter to get on.

<p>So it’s Saturday night in Seattle, famous for a great music scene,
 home of grunge, final resting place of Jimi Hendrix, and I’m
 ready to experience it first hand. I catch a bus back up town
 (public transportation in Seattle is really good, I never waited
 more than 20 minutes for a bus, and most of the time it was
 less than 5, the bus drivers were helpful and the fares very
 reasonable). I get to the gig at 8.45 walk in and the place
 is virtually empty, at the bar I ask about the entrance fee
 and I’m told that they haven’t set up the door yet and not to
 worry about it. Result, free gig! However nothing is ever that
 easy, the girl behind the bar asks me for my ID, I’m 28 years
 old, I was 17 the last time I was asked for ID back home, I
 did not even think about needing it, even though I kind of knew
 that the law in the US is very strict and that they ID everyone,
 I did not bring my passport to the gig :-( I have to catch a
 bus back downtown, retrieve my passport, bus it back to the
 gig, by which time the doorman is on and I have to pay the cover
 charge! 

<p>I had fun at the gig although the bands weren’t particularly
 good. I was a little worried at first, I got back to the venue
 by 9.30 and it was still very quite. It turns out that bands
 can play a lot later in Seattle, back home in the UK most gigs
 tend to be over by 11.30 whereas here the final band didn’t
 even start until 12.40!. 

<p>I chatted to the girl behind the bar and to a few people including
 Mike, a short, rather unfortunate looking chap who told me he
 ‘managed’ one of the bands. He didn’t seem to be doing much
 managing, more getting drunk on Long Island Iced Tea and trying
 to chat me up!

<p>I was rescued by the girl behind the bar, I think she was feeling
 bad about having to send me away earlier in the evening. She
 introduced me to her flatmate and his friends. They were really
 nice and I spent the rest of the evening chatting to them and
 avoiding Mike who by the end of the night was looking somewhat
 worse for wear.

<h> June 29, 2004 

<p>In the Beginning

<p>Last month I took my first decent holiday in 10 years. It was
 my very first trip solo and my first time doing like a backpacker
 rather than a tourist with money to burn.

<p>After much deliberation I chose the west coast of the good ol’
 US of A as my destination. Why? A whole host of reasons. I wanted
 to ease myself into the idea of being a lone female traveller
 and although I don’t consider the USA to be the safest destination
 in the world, factors like knowing the language and knowing
 that my VISA would buy me pretty much anything I needed were
 encouraging. Another draw was when I discovered the Green Tortoise
 Bus Tours. I was enthralled by the idea of seeing some of the
 most amazing places in the world and in a way which sounded
 like lots of fun for not very much money. 

<p>I chose to take their 9 day trip called ‘Canyons of the West’
 out of San Francisco. I was so excited. I was going to spend
 9 days on this crazy hippy bus with 35 other like minded people
 seeing places like the Grand Canyon, Bryce and Zion Canyons
 and Monument Valley. The rest of my trip stemmed from there
 and begins North in Seattle.

<p>Day 1
 So my holiday started in Seattle, I arrived at 4pm local
 time, yet my brain said it’s midnight and you’ve been up since
 7am Helen. The excitement and a little touch of anxiety too
 were pumping adrenalin through my veins though. I’d done my
 research, and finding the bus downtown was a doddle, thank you
 for good signage Seattle! As I board I ask the bus driver as
 nicely as possible if he would be kind enough to let me know
 when we arrived at 2nd and Pine, where I needed to get off.
 To my delight he says no problem, he’ll give me shout when we
 get there, he smiling and he’s really friendly, bus drivers
 in the UK are not known, in general for their helpfulness or
 geniality. Then he asks me if I’m Australian, I explain no,
 no I’m British. This will be the first of many times I’m asked
 this question during my trip, I was also asked if I was South
 African once, and a guy on the street thought I looked German?
 

<p>So I find the Hostel (Green Tortoise, yes same company as the
 bus tour) and I check in. I’m told that that night there’s free
 dinner and free beer (while the keg lasts). Hurrah! Sounds like
 a good way to spend my first night.

<p>In my room I meet Vanessa, a tiny French girl. She’s totally
 adorable and we chat for a while or at least she chats and I
 listen, I couldn’t get a word in edgeways. I agree to meet Vanessa
 and another girl in my room, Naoko, in the common room for dinner.

<p>My goal at this point it’s 6pm, my brain says it’s 2am and you’ve
 been up for 19 hours, is to get a drink and have a cigarette.
 Success, offie (Off Licence) right downstairs, smoking room
 in hostel, filled with nice approachable people.

<p>After dinner of baked potatoes, plenty of beer and good company
 I can no longer keep my eyes open (I tried to stay up till a
 reasonable hour in order to combat the jet-lag). I crawl off
 to bed at 10pm, my brain says it’s 6am and you’ve been up for
 23 hours!


