
URL: http://volokh.com/posts/1124127595.shtml
<p>Why do I treat the two similarly? Well, imagine that we were
 talking not about the Iraqi insurgents, but about anti-abortion
 terrorists, or violent Klansmen or neo-nazis, or other murderers.
 And say someone said things like:

<p>Well, you've got to understand the situation: The Southern resistance
 fighters see outsiders trying to control how they live, trying
 to destroy cultural institutions that have existed for decades,
 and taking the side of one ethnic group against another. It
 makes sense that they lashed out against those three Northerners
 who came down to impose their Northern views on Southern whites.

<p>Imagine that instead of unborn babies, the law allowed the killing
 of Jews or the disabled or the poor. Wouldn't many of us join
 the resistance, and be willing to kill those who are doing the
 killing, and to save innocent lives? We've always depended on
 resistances to get rid of oppressors.

<p>It is simple. If someone in the building right in front of you
 kills an unborn baby without any reason but that it's convenient
 to do so, what you will do? You retaliate. It's what I'd do.
 It's probably what you'd do too.

<p>Sure, as to each of the statements one could come up with some
 interpretation that suggests the speaker doesn't really support
 the killing. Maybe they're just impartial observers of human
 nature, offering useful psychological insights.

<p>Or maybe not. It seems to me that in such situations, we can
 quite reasonably infer that the person really is in substantial
 measure on the side of the bad guys &mdash; maybe not completely
 (people's views are often ambivalent), but to a considerable
 extent.

<p>Of course one shouldn't draw such an inference lightly: As I
 mentioned in my previous post, one certainly shouldn't infer
 sympathy with the killers simply from a criticism of the other's
 policies. "Abortion is murder" isn't the same as "Anti-abortion
 terrorism is justified." "The war in Iraq is wrong" isn't the
 same as "the insurgents' killings are justified." But when a
 statement goes much further, for instance analogizing the killers
 to respected people (e.g., the French resistance, the Minutemen),
 or suggesting that we'd do the same (and rightly so) in a situation
 that the speaker is suggesting is morally equivalent or at least
 quite similar, then it seems to me perfectly legitimate to lump
 such justifications together with outright support.

<p>
If I were to say that the American invasion and occupation of
 Iraq looks to some in the Arab world as the most recent episode
 in a thousand-year-old series of non-Muslim efforts to assert
 control over Muslim lands--much, incidentally, as the Soviet
 invasion of Afghanistan did--would that make me a "bad guy?"

<p>I think a distinction needs to be made between 'justifying' the
 actions and offering some explanations for the actions. Understanding
 is hardly saying that what the insurgents do is A-OK. I think
 it's very important for any chance of success to have reasonable
 explanations as to why the insurgents are doing what they do
 (and not the ridiculous and vague "they hate freedom" garbage
 that seems to be the stock answer of many). Liken it to a good
 lawyer's job -- to win your argument in court, you have to understand
 the reasoning of the other side and be able to deal with it
 appropriately. Likewise, we need to understand what exactly
 is going on with those who continue their attacks. To discuss
 such things hardly is "justification" of their actions, it's
 the only smart thing to do if we expect to have even a chance
 at success. In other words, know your enemy. 

<p>
And I'm betting that the insurgents think of themselves a lot
 like the Minutemen, misguided though their thoughts may be seeing
 as most Iraqis aren't too ticked that Saddam is gone and would
 probably just assume the insurgents cut it out so Iraq can get
 itself back up and running and get rid of the US troops by making
 it unnecessary for them to be there.

<p>>>It seems to me that in such situations, we can quite reasonably
 infer that the person really is in substantial measure on the
 side of the bad guys -- maybe not completely (people's views
 are often ambivalently), but to a considerable extent. 

<p>
So, for instance, we can quite reasonably infer that President
 Bush and Major General Joseph Taluto are to a considerable extent
 on the side of the bad guys? 

<p>
"[T]hey're not happy they're occupied. I wouldn't be happy if
 I were occupied either." G. W. Bush 

<p>
A senior US military chief has admitted "good, honest" Iraqis
 are fighting American forces. Major General Joseph Taluto said
 he could understand why some ordinary people would take up arms
 against the US military because "they're offended by our presence".
 

<p>The argument here is just wrong on its face. The discussion of
 abortion clinic bombers' motivations is one I've used, almost
 exactly as written above, in my political science classes. Why?
 Because I think it important that studnts learn to understand
 the motives of political actors, no matter how insane or unreasonable
 those motives might seem to me. Do I support bombing abortion
 clinics? Of course not. Do I understand how those who believe
 abortion is murder justify doing it? Absolutely. Do I support
 killing American soldiers? Of course not. DO I understand why
 many normal Iraqi's might want to do so? Of course I do. 

<p>
In the case of Iraq, I think it obtuse for us to pretend the
 insurgents don't have excellent justifications for their own
 actions, and incredibly stupid not to try and empathize with
 those justifications. How else are we to defeat them, or even
 recognize the strategic implications of their motives so we
 can determine counter-strategies? The alternative is the utter
 lack of discernment that led some in the current administration
 to think that the Iraqi's would welcome us with flowers and
 praise for invading their country. Some did, just as some in
 Iran or Syria or North Korea might. But a moment of thoughtful
 empathy might help us understand that most people are rather
 unreflective nationalists when it comes to invasions of their
 county, and are likely to fight back, even if the invaders are
 objectively acting in the interest of the citizens of the country
 being invaded! 

<p>
The comments in this post, it seems to me, get at a much deeper
 problem. Volokh appears unable to distinguish understanding
 from supporting, at least when addressing issues about which
 he has already decided. I understand that impulse (I find it
 repellent when I inhabit and explicate the motives of positions
 I abhor), but I also think it utterly inappropriate to democratic
 citizenship, and certainly an obstruction to effective teaching.

<p>But when a statement goes much further, for instance analogizing
 the killers to respected people (e.g., the French resistance,
 the Minutemen), or suggesting that we'd do the same (and rightly
 so) in a situation that the speaker is suggesting is morally
 equivalent or at least quite similar, then it seems to me perfectly
 legitimate to lump such justifications together with outright
 support.

<p>
As an investor if I look at the economic evidence and conclude
 the stock market is going to go down it does 
not mean that
 I want it to happen or that I believe the stock market is a
 bad thing. 

<p>
As an American I looked at what Bush &amp;Co. were planning
 on doing in Iraq and reached an objective conclusion that he
 would fail and that we would end up in a protracted guerilla
 that would massive damage US foreign policy and leave the US
 worse off. 

<p>
So I opposed the war. I said the US is making a major mistake
 and will suffer for it. 

<p>
Does this make me a bad American or unpatriotic? 

<p>
I would argue that the people that made the poor decision to
 rush into a war unprepared and the people that give this decision
 unquestioned support are the real true 
enemies of the US.

<p>
You miss a point. If your conclusion about the stock market's
 decline is both widely communicated and believed, it will add
 negative pressure to the prices. Other factors may intervene,
 but the result of your conclusion and communication will be
 negative despite your motivations. 
The same goes for Iraq.
 Your conclusion may be as objective and disinterested as it
 is possible for a conclusion to be, yet it adds to the terrorists'
 idea that if they hang in there, kill enough Americans, they
 can win. 
The only way your point can be valid is if, having
 come to your conclusion, you keep your mouth shut. 
Spare me
 the First Amendment crap--he said pre-emptively--I am not talking
 about your rights but about the effects.

<p>Aubrey, I don't know what theory of markets you espouse, but
 for most mainstream economists and free market advocates, what
 you've said is not just an error, but actively dangerous. You
 say: 

<p>
If your conclusion about the stock market's decline is both
 widely communicated and believed, it will add negative pressure
 to the prices. 

<p>
and conclude that he should shut up. But markets only work well
 if they aggregrate information well; in fact, a central justification
 for markets is that they better embody the wisdom of disparate
 individual than any one person can. The mechanism requires good
 information. If people who recognize weaknesses in the current
 market don't share that information, the market can't correct
 for the problem, and eventually we are all worse off. Only someonw
 who doesn't believe in free markets would advocate silence as
 you do. 

<p>
The same goes for politics. If all of us who see flaws in the
 administrtions policies and motives just shut up, there isn't
 any way for correction to occur in the political marketplace.

<p>"Critics of the war should certainly not let themselves be browbeaten
 by false imputations that they support the other side." - Volokh
 (today) 

<p>
that's good reason to think that at least some voters -- quite
 likely not even a majority in their district, but a substantial
 matter -- endorse their views. Likewise, while I'm hesitant
 to infer much from comments by random posters on various Internet
 fora, the presence of those comments, coupled with the views
 expressed by more prominent people, suggests that there is a
 considerable number of people who take this position. - Volokh
 (today) 

<p>Well, imagine that we were talking not about the Iraqi insurgents,
 but about anti-abortion terrorists, or violent Klansmen or neo-nazis,
 or other murderers.

<p>
The legitimacy of this argumentative move seems to be at the
 heart of the disagreement. 

<p>
"[A]nti-abortion terrorists, or violent Klansmen or neo-nazis"
 operate on the fringes of society. They are delusional and cultish.
 There's no real prospect that they will take over our society,
 but they can do a lot of damage. Because they are delusional,
 we couldn't negotiate with them even if we wanted to; all we
 can do is oppose them until they disperse. 

<p>
The French Resistance and the Minutemen were underground organizations
 in which the majority of the populace did not participate, but
 they did not operate on the fringes of society. Nor did the
 populace at large consider them to be delusional. Their goal
 was to take control of their respective societies, and they
 had a reasonable chance of succeeding. 

<p>
If you think the Iraqi insurgents are like neo-Nazis, that suggests
 one strategy for proceeding in Iraq. If you think they are like
 the French Resistance, that suggests another strategy. Ruling
 the latter comparison out of bounds a priori forecloses that
 argument.

<p>
I didn't say you should keep your mouth shut, although it probably
 seems useful to you to pretend I did. Herewith a lesson in motivation
 imputation: Did he read it too fast so that he didn't understand
 it and thinks I said people should shut up? Or is he smart enough
 to know better and thought it would help his argument to misrepresent
 what I said? 
I go for number 2, on account of he doesn't seem
 careless. 
See how it works? 

<p>
What I said was that the earlier poster's motivation cannot
 be without effect unless he keeps his mouth shut about his conclusions.
 If he speaks, he has an effect. The effect is independent of
 his motivation, whatever it may be. However, we can look at
 the likely effect and see if it squares with the claimed motivation.
 Fits? Doesn't fit? If it doesn't fit, what does that mean?

<p>
I don't think I'm misrepresenting what you said, but I am disagreeing
 with your account of the implications of your argument. Reaching
 a different conclusion from the same initial premise does not
 imply misreading; rather, that's the core of rational argument.
 And I disagreed on pragmatic grounds, not "first amendment crap"
 (though I happen to think it isn't crap but the thing that makes
 democracy superior to other forms of government -- still, irrelevant
 to my point). 

<p>
Clearly speech acts have effects. You claim that the effect
 of speaking one's legitimately reasoned conclusions about the
 motivations of our enemies in Iraq will ultimately help them
 and hurt us. I say that you are wrong. Failing to accurately
 understand and thus accurately counter our enemies will harm
 both our soldiers and our long term goals. So I say, speak up,
 and hope someone with the ability to help us plan our strategy
 more effectively hears you. And I say that as someone who vocally
 supported the war and who has a brother fighting it, not some
 sort of pacifist. 

<p>
You can disagree, as I suspect you do. But please don't imply
 I'm not reading you accurately.

<p>ecwingen, 
But we do run the risk that our efforts to understand
 their justifications will simply look like "projection." I say
 this because the "insurgents" or "minutemen" or "patriots" or
 whatever you wanna call them don't seem to have any political
 agenda beyond killing civilians and constructing a worldwide
 caliphate. Or at least they haven't been particularly successful
 at PR. I mean, I've heard vague references to "crusaders" and
 whatnot, but do we really know what these people want? At least
 the abortion-bombers (and Charles Manson, for that matter) had
 a clear objective.

<p>
If you have a hot idea that will help us, send Rummy an e-mail.
 
If you have a pessimistic view of things and spread them around...the
 effect is different. 
It is impossible to say that publicly-stated
 views of pessimism don't encourage the terrorists. I don't say
 they "help" the terrorists, since it would be better for all
 of us, including them, if they quit now. So encouraging them
 to hang on isn't necessarily "helping" them. 
The point is that,
 since the end of WW II, the only important terrain in a war
 involving the US is the six inches between the ears of the American
 voter. Our enemies work hard at assessing the status of that
 terrain, of the effects of their efforts. If they think they
 are on the right path, they will be encouraged to persevere.
 
This isn't new to you and the advice, which is that if you
 want to have a conclusion, keep it to yourself or it will have
 an effect (which you may or may not like, and may or may not
 admit seeking). 
You have a right to have an effect, but not
 a right to be considered innocent if the effect seems determined
 to be in opposition to our aims. 
And your motivation doesn't
 matter a hoot. 
But, then, we're not talking exclusively about
 your motivation. 
We're talking about people who are considerably
 more obnoxious than offering good advice.

<p>I tend not to think that people writing this sort of explanation
 of a faction's viewpoint agree with that faction, merely because
 I tend to compose such viewpoint-explanations all the time about
 every person and faction I encounter, sort of a running monologue
 of "here's how they see themselves." 

<p>
This doesn't mean I agree with absolutely everyone - it just
 means I like to try to understand how they are motivated. 

<p>
I suspect I would write something very similar about the Iraqi,
 were I to attempt it, and something just as sympathetic about
 the forces arrayed to oust Saddam Hussein. Not only that, but
 also about the folks who tried to stop the battle before it
 started, and about the Iraqis who welcomed the US&allies as
 their liberators. It still doesn't tell you which side I agree
 with.

<p>
Why do you think they have no political agenda? It's fairly
 clear that those fighting the coalition in Iraq have multiple
 agendas. Some want to restablish a Sunni government, others
 to create a Shia dominated Islamic Republic, others to engage
 the U.S. in battle, some for martyrdom, and some out of a sense
 that their territory has been occupied. If anything, it's a
 surfeit of motives, which is part of the problem we are having
 defeating them. 

<p>
So, assuming the insurgents are not spending much time reading
 internet posts and would be fighting us no matter what morons
 like Mike Moore have to say, isn't it important for us to figure
 out why they are fighting? It is especially dangerous to just
 throw up our hands and say they're inscrutable; failure to understand
 the enemy always leads to defeat. If we can't "really know what
 these people want," then we will have that much more trouble
 winning.

<p>So you and I agree, Aubrey. Opinions have effects and people
 should be held accountable for them. But that doesn't mean people
 who support the war as currently conducted are exempt from such
 responsibility. If the current strategy is mistaken and will,
 in the long run, harm American interests, then supporting that
 strategy is wrong, and the person doing so is undermining American
 interests. 

<p>
The point, simply, is that you are trying to reach a conclusion
 (people who doubt the current strategy should shut up or they
 cannot "be considered innocent if the effect seems determined
 to be in opposition to our aims") that cannot be attained from
 your premise, unless you add the further premise that the way
 the war is being fought right now is the best way to fight it.
 If it isn't (and there is substantial disagreement about this
 even among moderate Republicans like myself) then shutting up
 doesn't follow. In fact, you have an obligation to voice such
 concern, and if you don't, you are acting "in opposition to
 our aims." 

<p>
The same goes for people whose motives are perhaps objectively
 anti-American, since, as you say, motivation doesn't matter.
 If they are telling us something useful that will help us understand
 the enemy and defeat them, I want to hear it.

<p>
I am not saying what anybody "should" do. It appears, however,
 that pointing out inevitable results makes people uncomfortable,
 so they play this nonsense game that you played. 

<p>
You should do what you think you should do. You should not think
 people are forbidden from pointing out what looks like an inevitable
 result, and even from speculating whether, despite your protestations,
 the inevitable result is what you really want.

<p>You wrote: "suggesting that we'd do the same (and rightly so)
 in a situation that the speaker is suggesting is morally equivalent
 or at least quite similar, then it seems to me perfectly legitimate
 to lump such justifications together with outright support."
 

<p>
For the record as one person who raised such a point, just because
 I think many Americans are irrationally nationalistic and would
 rebel against even a reasonable occupying force, does not mean
 that I think that such a position is correct or good. Furthermore,
 I purposely chose the south's resistance of reconstruction because
 the Ku Klux Klan and lynchings *are* as morally bankrupt as
 extreme Islamic terrorism.


