
URL: http://www.intelligentagent.com/archive/march_road.html
<h>VENUES OF PROCESS: 
 THE ROAD UNRAVELED

<h>The Changing Form of Exhibition

<h>by musEleanor, C.M.S.A. 
(Certified Muse in the Service of Art)

<p> ECO'S DRAWING

<p>
 This 20th century labyrinthine line drawing by Umberto Eco*
 traces the development of a pun created by James Joyce for Finnegan's
 Wake. The drawing illustrates a decoding of the pun, tracing
 possible nodes of association which link the words "Neanderthal,"
 "Meander," and "Tale" from which Joyce formed the transformative
 word "Meandertale." The newly constructed word "Meandertale"
 appears to signify the very name of the process that forms it,
 a meandering quest for associations between words--a quest where
 these associations simultaneously tell the story of the words'
 evolution and transform them. In such a well-ventilated world,
 perhaps one necessary constraint might be to assume that no
 word suffers more than six degrees of separation from any other.
 

<p>CLUES WITHOUT CONTEXT?

<p>
 How far astray can the routers of imagination take us from
 what we can consider true? Can we be sure that such a quest
 on a well-trodden path is revealing good metaphorical expression?
 Clues without contexti.e., the names without the lines--make
 the subject of the drawing cease to resonate its potential;
 it simply becomes a representation of itself where everything
 is equal or in a simplistic hierarchy (some are upper case,
 some are lower). The labyrinthine journey defined by the convoluted
 node line occurring between words is sprinkled with alchemical
 events: occurrences in language where two words together form
 another that leads to a whole new expression of association
 and meaning. Such events stimulate vernacular, slang and new
 languages.

<p>MYSTERY WITHOUT [E]MOTION?

<p>
 Then again, selecting the nodes in Eco's drawing without their
 names or connections offers mystery (go ahead, connect the dots)--but
 the literary metaphor suffers a loss of its muscular tone, its
 life-like exuberance. As the depiction of convoluted connections
 disappear in the above drawing, the resonance also falls away,
 dwindling to nothing. If we absent everything but the line,
 its function as a pointer to possibilities suffers. We have
 uniformly subtracted from this path any of its significant elements.
 

<p>ORDER WITHOUT SIGNIFICANCE?

<p>
 In the modernist notion of exhibition, the curator and the
 viewer are sequestered on opposite sides of the proscenium.
 The curator presents a "story" of the exhibition with a beginning,
 a middle and an end. An "opening" commences the exhibition,
 the exhibition period is even and consistently passed, and the
 "closing" announces the fall of the curtain, case closed, on
 to the next cultural construction. Documentation is arranged
 prior to the tenure of the exhibition, usually in the form of
 a catalogue published simultaneously with the show's appearance.
 During the tenure of the exhibition, or shortly thereafter,
 the show is reviewed by "others"--critics who stand apart as
 specializing in placing the exhibition in a context . The significance
 of a link is provoked by the relationship of the material at
 either end of it. This type of exhibition structure has a kind
 of pedagogic implication, providing a set piece for drawing
 conclusions, making comparisons, sustaining a particular set
 of ciphers constituting what we call culture.

<p> Now we are seeing more and more the appearance of an exhibition
 venue harboring more intent towards the artist's process than
 product. These are opportunities for artists where the relationship
 of one work to another, whether solo or group exhibition, conjures
 up additional language in the reader's mind which makes the
 leap from one work to another. This invisible text, an emerging
 hieroglyphic structure in the reader's mind, is the activity
 which conjures up a new language of the links and a new mode
 of presentation. Hypermedia links are pockets, absences, lapses,
 synapses, indicating what is inexpressible or interactively
 assumed by the viewer or reader. The subtext of the work can
 be embedded, even inconsistently, in the linkages and left to
 the viewer to decipher. 

<p>Venues of Process:

<p>
 There are experiments going on now all over the world--venues
 offered with open arms to artists where a work can initiate,
 grow and take on a form that is purely of its own conclusion.
 These venues of process, of course, are affected by the circumstances
 and constraints under which they are developed and presented.
 I will discuss how these venues address the idea of the artist's
 process taking place in the exhibition--how each venue forms
 its own unique environment for process. 

<p>BLAST, xaf Foundation
 Sandra Gering Gallery, New York - 
 November
 22, 1996--January 4, 1997

<p>
 In my article in the January issue of IA, I defined the "BLAST"
 exhibition as an "ever-changing cat's cradle of collaboration...
 making history of history making history." I was referring to
 the development of the exhibition of works--whether documentary,
 object, display and/or performance--over the time of the exhibition's
 tenure. The designated particular theme (Drama) signaled a call
 to the artist to develop a new work or adapt an old, or at least
 to see a pre-existing work in a new context. New works, of course,
 require time to develop, and there was a time when new works
 were developed privately, in the studio, and the various stages
 of their development were neither seen nor discussed. BLAST's
 in-depth sweep of good works was enhanced by the fact that all
 the works were changing over time, whether literally or by perception.
 Artists were, to different degrees, influenced by their experience
 of each others' work. This seems to me to be more than process
 and/or collaboration--it offers the same kind of alchemic events
 inherent in Eco's drawing. Because the more artificial borders
 between artists are broken down by "interest," more and more
 directed possibilities emerge, creating a vibrant theater of
 operations. 

<p>TECHNOSEDUCTION 
 The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science
 and Art, 
New York
 January 17--February 15, 1997

<p>
 "TECHNOSEDUCTION" was an art exhibition of very varied technologies
 and processes. It was based on a discrete and specific "interface":
 thoughts of technology and seduction where the seducer and seduced
 are chameleon-like and transformatively interchangeable. At
 the exhibition opening, passing trays of food held high in the
 air echoed the exhibition's mode of presentation itself--the
 coinage of a fixed idea handed to viewers on a platter. This
 appears to be a straightforward ideology. In choosing between
 process and/or product orientation for an exhibition, one would
 think the former would be the riskiest. But there is risk in
 the "platter of objects" mode, too--it hangs on one statement
 rather than many possible interpretations, and the exhibition
 may be judged on the nature of the statement rather than on
 the works itself, even if that is not the intention.

<p>
 A muse-educated colleague of mine described "TECHNOSEDUCTION"
 as a "3-ring circus," meaning that in a derogatory way. I see
 it as quite noble and brave in the face of current theoretical
 ground. The circus is exciting and often frightening because
 of all the possible things that can go wrong in a way that can't
 be masked or denied.

<p>
 The presentation of "TECHNOSEDUCTION" does incur a "representational"
 aura since its nature tends to make viewers and curators alike
 break it down into "types of work": installations, display,
 interactive interface topography, etc. Perhaps this was intended
 to show how technology offers many possibilities, and will not
 homogenize our endeavors. But emphasizing criteria of "visual
 or physical differences" to define the exhibition undermines
 its tenor, diminishes its muscular power, takes all the scariness
 out. This may be secondary to the fact that there were wonderful
 works in the exhibition and that it was very much worth seeing,
 but it will be interesting to see how wonderful works sit in
 the context provided for them from this point on. 

<p>PORT 
 January 25--March 29, 1997
 On-line and at The List Visual
 Arts Center at M.I.T.http://artnetweb.com/port/

<p>
 "PORT" of course, is the epitome of real-time risk: a space
 and time where an artist has the opportunity to develop not
 only a work, but the process of developing the work itself.
 The closest analogy I can find to it is the development of a
 choreography or orchestration where the process is visible to
 the audience. "PORT" has three stageset space-and-time layers
 of venue. A live audience--as in physical presence at the location
 where the work is being made (in the studio etc.)--an online
 real time presence, and a physical presence at its "destination"--the
 four screens at the List Visual Arts Center at M.I.T. As muse,
 I am encouraging this sort of venue for artists--a venue where
 an idea can be born, tested, evolved, and even revolutionized
 over a period of time while visible to others, where artists
 can overlap and collaborate while retaining their individuation
 (in this case, designated by time slots). "PORT" is an ideal
 venue because artists can afford to surrender their preconceived
 belief systems and undergo a wavering, analysis, deconstruction,
 loss of faith and tossup, up onto a new path. Speaking for one
 of the artists in the "PORT" exhibition, "It is the closest
 thing to artists being able to follow Dante's footsteps through
 The Inferno  in real time." If any exhibition endeavor has achieved
 this recently it is the "PORT" exhibition, and its process itself
 is very apparent and very evident throughout the performative
 development of the work. 

<p>
 ---------------------*Diagram by Umberto Eco from The Limits
 of Interpretation, A Midland Book, Indiana University Press,
 Bloomington and Indianapolis, 1994, Illustration 9.2, p. 141.



