
URL: http://www.offoffoff.com/theater/2004/corporaterock.php
<p>Set in the offices of a fictional Rolling Stone magazine, "Corporate
 Rock" is a very loose comedy about the pathetic state of mainstream
 music redeemed by some very funny screwball antics.

<p> "It's better to burn out than to fade away," the house misfit
 mentions to the big boss at this fictionalized version of the
 Rolling Stone offices, and he's promptly told to quit quoting
 Hunter S. Thompson all the time. Thus has the onetime chronicle
 of the counterculture evolved to the MTV-ified present day.

<p>
  

<p>CORPORATE ROCK

<p> Written by: William Bennett.
 Directed by: Tim Haskell.
 Cast:
 Travis York, Dorian Missick, Natalia Hernandez, Charles Jang,
 Gerry Sheridan, Jamie Benge, Aaron Haskell, Kellie Arens, Nick
 Arens.
 Choreography by: Rebecca Ramirez.
 Sound design by:
 Vincent Olivieri.
 Set design by: Paul Smithyman.
 Costumes
 by: Sarah Iams.
 Lighting design by: Nick Hohn.
 Fight choreography:
 DeeAnn Weir.

<p>
 Those who recognize the quote above (including most readers
 of this article, I hope) will also remember the other signature
 line from the same song: "Rock and roll will never die." Neil
 Young was probably in anthemic rather than ironic mode when
 he wrote those lyrics, or he might have foretold the actual
 death throes of rock and roll, which are what the show "Corporate
 Rock" is all about.

<p>
 Over the top and under the top, overacted and underacted, ridiculously
 campy and occasionally earnest, William Bennett's play cranks
 out riff after comedic riff in the hopes that something in there
 will rock your world. Sometimes it does.

<p>
 Dylan (Travis York), the misfit who is the magazine's last
 connection to the soul of rock and roll, squanders his days
 writing articles about bands with names like Underkill and the
 Knights Who Say Neat, which get filed away on the web site while
 the magazine's bigger names churn out repeated cover stories
 on Britney Spears and the plastic surgeons to the stars. (It's
 better to churn out than to fade away, you might say.) The closest
 thing he gets to a big break is the chance to edit the mag's
 star writer, Nathaniel Hunger (a permanently leering Jamie Benge),
 which actually means keeping him from falling out of his chair
 long enough to half-finish a piece of minimally publishable
 prose.

<p>  

<p> A cockamamie plot ensues in which something happens to make
 Nathaniel disappear, Dylan surreptitiously usurps his byline
 for the duration, and the whole thing is given a screwball wrapup
 involving a Russian call girl, French heavy-metal gangsters
 (huh?), and an argument about Def Leppard.

<p>
 Whether any of this holds together as a convincing comedy,
 the play has a number of hilarious individual moments. Besides
 a few of Dylan's choicest pronouncements on the lame pop stars
 of the moment, there are several great visual gags (the handshakes
 alone are a hoot), and Aaron Haskell as a high-pitched white
 hip-hopper borders on the unintelligible but can be mad funny.

<p>
 And somewhere behind the play's shenanigans is a message about
 the heat death of our cultural universe. The last time I read
 Rolling Stone was probably 18 years ago, when the likes of Phil
 Collins on the cover were already advertising the magazine's
 creeping irrelevance, so I can't say exactly how much more out
 of touch it may be today. But of course one magazine's failure
 of nerve doesn't mean rock and roll is really dead &#151; today's
 Hendrixes and Cobains have just been pushed back under the radar
 where, perhaps, they belong. Today's rock

<p>
 "Corporate Rock" isn't the most eloquent takedown of our tepid
 mass culture, but most of the audience walked away well entertained.
 From director Timothy Haskell and some of the other talents
 behind last year's self-explanatorily raucous hit "Road House:
 the stage version of the cinema classic that starred Patrick
 Swayze Except This One Stars Taimak from the 80's Cult Classic
 'the Last Dragon' wearing a Blonde Mullet Wig," it's another
 anything-goes tag-team mélée of a play, only this time with
 less fighting and more arguing about whose favorite band sucks.
 In more subject-appropriate terms, it's a play with one part
 Frank Zappa to every two parts Dweezil.



