
URL: http://www2.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/NSAEBB/NSAEBB139
<p>Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul H. Nitze, third from left, at
 a National Security Council meeting on February 7, 1968. Also
 depicted are President Lyndon B. Johnson and Secretary of Defense
 Robert S. McNamara. (Source: LBJ Library, LBJ-WHPO: White House
 Photo Office Collection, 11/22/1963 - 01/20/1969)

<p>"The Master of the Game"

<p>Paul H. Nitze and U.S. Cold War Strategy
from Truman to Reagan

<p>National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 139

<p>by William Burr and Robert Wampler202/994-7000

<p>Posted October 27, 2004

<p>Washington, D.C., 27 October 2004 - The recent passing of Paul
 Nitze at the age of 97 has brought forth the expected array
 of obituaries, retrospectives and assessments of his lengthy
 and often controversial career, in the process turning people's
 minds back to an era when superpower rivalry and the threat
 of nuclear annihilation hung over the world as the United States
 and Russia engaged in what John F. Kennedy termed the long,
 twilight struggle. As the many obituaries that have appeared
 since his death detail, Nitze's life in public service, following
 a successful early career as a Wall Street financier, placed
 him at the center of practically every significant decision
 or debate about U.S. Cold War strategy and nuclear weapons policies,
 though not always at the highest levels. As his memoir, titled
 From Hiroshima to Glasnost, underscores, this career stretched
 from his work with the World War II Strategic Bombing Survey,
 which placed him in Hiroshima and Nagasaki soon after the atomic
 bombs were dropped, to his negotiations with the Soviets on
 intermediate nuclear forces under Reagan. His commitment to
 rigorous analysis and advocacy of what he saw as the logical
 consequences of this analysis in strategic planning and arms
 control negotiations often put him at odds with colleagues as
 well as his adversaries and critics, who saw his assessments
 as biased towards worst-case scenarios. Both Nitze's memoir
 and his biographers have detailed the history of his often contentious
 battles, inside and outside of government, whenever he believed
 that U.S. was pursuing ill-advised and even dangerous policies
 with respect to fielding the necessary levels and proper mix
 of military forces both conventional and nuclear, and pursuing
 arms control agreements with the USSR. 

<p> Nitze's refusal to be pigeon-holed with any one party or side
 in a policy debate often led observers and critics to argue
 he was at best contradictory in his positions, at worst cynically
 partisan in his critiques (a "flip-flopper" in current usage),
 though he would hold that his positions were always founded
 upon rational analysis of the facts, not emotional attachment
 to ideological positions. In hindsight, the record suggests
 that, while U.S. military might had to be both effective and
 usable to provide a viable deterrent in his view, Nitze's longer-term
 objective was to build up in order to build down through carefully
 crafted arms control agreements. For Nitze, God (or more often
 the Devil) was in the details on both sides of this process,
 and, as he stressed in his assessment of the pros and cons of
 anti-missile defense systems, often the critical question was
 whether the weapons system, or the proposed policy, was cost-effective
 at the margin. (Note 1)

<p>
 In his 1988 biography of Paul Nitze, Strobe Talbott, the author
 of numerous books on U.S.-Soviet arms control negotiations and
 later Deputy Secretary of State under Bill Clinton, draws a
 parallel between Nitze and the protagonist of Herman Hesse's
 novel Magister Ludi, or The Glass Bead Game, which centers on
 the arcane and highly complex game of the title that requires
 a lifetime of study to master its intricate interplay of musical
 and mathematical forms. It was an apt analogy, given that Nitze's
 life work was devoted to tackling and mastering the equally
 arcane, complex and daunting challenges posed by the introduction
 of nuclear weapons into the arsenals and strategic calculations
 of the United States and its Cold War rival, the Soviet Union
 (not to mention his personal search for understanding of Bach).
 As Talbott discusses, for Nitze these weapons introduced a new
 reality in terms of strategic vulnerability for the United States,
 but also offered tools for addressing this situation, if only
 the requisite intellectual power was brought to bear upon determining
 how these weapons could be harnessed to America's political
 and strategic interests and goals. (Note 2) 

<p> For Nitze, the emphasis upon the need for dispassionate, objective
 analysis of nuclear weapons capabilities and the development
 of both military plans and diplomatic policies built upon these
 analyses would be the constant motif of his thinking on these
 issues. To this end, Nitze became the undisputed master of his
 game, with a grasp of the technological and operational aspects
 of nuclear planning. For some, this might be seen as the logical
 next step in the development of U.S. deterrence policy, once
 his predecessor George Kennan had established the political
 and economic thrusts of America's postwar response to the Soviet
 threat. As historian Gregg Herken, author of The Winning Weapon
 and Counsels of War, puts it, "while George Kennan laid out
 the grand strategy for containment, it was Paul Nitze who determined
 how that strategy would be carried out--by containing the Soviet
 Union with the threat of nuclear weapons." For Kennan, however,
 Nitze was guilty of a severe distortion and misapplication of
 the policy he had outlined, and the diplomat denounced Nitze
 for "militarizing" containment.

<p> As Fred Kaplan, author of The Wizards of Armageddon, notes in
 his Slate obituary on Nitze (Note 3), Nitze's legacy can be
 viewed as providing the intellectual and policy basis for the
 rise of America as a global superpower after World War II, a
 status that was founded primarily upon America's nuclear might,
 which created nightmarish dilemmas for the country's leaders
 and its people. Kaplan cites documents with which Nitze is closely
 tied that illustrate his central role in defining the Cold War's
 strategic dilemmas and laying out the logical (in his view)
 solutions to these dilemmas. Only one of these, NSC 68, is easily
 available online. (Note 4) In order to provide an inside look
 at Nitze's career and the range of events and issues with which
 he was engaged, the National Security Archive is posting on
 the Web a selection of other declassified documents dating from
 his time as head of the Policy Planning Staff under Truman to
 his work for Reagan on arms control matters. (Note 5) As the
 document descriptions below detail, Nitze's involvement in nuclear
 weapons policies included delicate questions of U.S. obligations
 to consult with allies before the use of nuclear weapons, his
 role in drafting the Gaither Report that criticized Eisenhower's
 military policies and made the case for an emerging "missile
 gap" with the Soviet Union, his discussions with NATO allies
 on military planning to defend West Berlin against a Soviet
 attack, his participation in the SALT I negotiations, his central
 role in spearheading criticism of the arms control policies
 of Ford and Carter, and his position as negotiator, presidential
 advisor and "&eacute;minence grise" on arms control issues during
 the Reagan administration. All in all, it is a remarkable record
 of determined and unflagging engagement publicly and behind
 the closed doors of government with the key problem of the Cold
 War era: how to respond rationally to the fact of nuclear weapons
 without giving in to either despair or unfounded optimism about
 the security dilemmas they created. The wisdom of his responses
 and the impact they had upon U.S. and Cold War history are issues
 that will likely be the focus of historical study and debate
 for some time, as the records of the era are opened to scrutiny.

<p>DocumentsNote: The following documents are in PDF format.
 You
 will need to download and install the free Adobe Acrobat Reader
 to view. 

<p>During most of Truman's second term, Nitze served as director
 of the State Department's Policy Planning Staff, taking over
 from his predecessor, George F. Kennan. At PPS, Nitze had a
 range of duties, some of which included producing major strategic
 assessments that followed up on NSC 68. As indicated by this
 document, he also worked on nuclear weapons policy issues. During
 this meeting, he and top U.S. officials met with their British
 counterparts to discuss one of the most sensitive alliance issues,
 the problem of nuclear weapons use. With East-West tensions
 worsening largely because of the Korean situation, the British,
 as now a close ally, worried that the United States would precipitately
 use nuclear weapons against North Korea or China. While top
 British officials sought assurances that Washington would consult
 London before making a nuclear use decision, Nitze and his colleagues
 were unwilling to make any commitments in advance.

<p>Out of government during the Eisenhower administration, Nitze
 remained active in foreign affairs issues through his involvement
 in the Council on Foreign Relations and the School for Advanced
 International Studies (SAIS), which he had helped found, among
 other activities. He emerged as a sharp critic of Eisenhower's
 tight military budget policies. This document, generally known
 as the Gaither Report--after H. Rowland Gaither, the chairman
 of the Security Resources Panel--played an important role in
 raising concerns about an alleged missile gap and mobilizing
 support for a U.S. ICBM buildup, during Eisenhower's second
 term. While not a senior member of the Gaither panel, Paul Nitze
 played a key role in drafting the report and, as Fred Kaplan
 recently suggested, it, like NSC 68, was "another barn-burner."
 President Eisenhower discounted the report but the substance
 leaked to the press and initiated considerable agitation in
 Congress and elsewhere about the U.S. strategic position and
 calls for higher levels of military spending.

<p>For an early and highly informative study of the Gaither report,
 see Morton Halperin's "The Gaither Committee and the Policy
 Process," World Politics, April 1961. Nitze was a key source
 of information for Halperin&#8217;s article, which showed so
 much inside knowledge that it upset some of the committee members.
 (Communication from Morton Halperin, 27 October 2004)

<p>In the wake of a note on the Berlin question, which the Soviet
 Union sent the Western powers in November 1958, the United States
 and its closest European allies wondered whether Soviet premier
 Nikita Khrushchev would initiate a major crisis over the status
 of West Berlin. In this speech, Nitze reviews the post-World
 War II debates over the future of Germany, including George
 Kennan's "Plan A," assesses Soviet intentions, and mulls over
 the political and military options available to the Allies in
 the event of a military crisis. Nitze believed that the situation
 was serious and in early 1959 saw "little prospect of weaving
 through the next twelve months without war and without the surrender
 of Berlin, unless we combine firmness with great discretion."
 While supporting a firm stand, Nitze saw a great risk of nuclear
 weapons use, which he believed had to be "avoided at all costs."

<p>An early supporter of John F. Kennedy's presidential campaign,
 Nitze was offered several job possibilities after the election.
 One was assistant to the president for national security affairs;
 the other was assistant secretary of defense for international
 security affairs. Not realizing how important the White House
 job could be, Nitze instead chose the position at ISA, then
 called the "little State Department" because of its many diplomatic
 responsibilities (overseas base agreements, military assistance,
 etc.). With another Berlin crisis unfolding, Nitze became especially
 heavily involved in European defense issues. This memorandum,
 prepared by State Department official Seymour Weiss, reviews
 the wide range of issues that Nitze and the Pentagon covered
 during recent defense talks in France and Germany. Issues included
 planning by the British Army on the Rhine (BAOR), plans for
 the deployment of medium range ballistic missiles (MRBMs), military
 plans by NATO's Allied Command Europe (ACE), discussions with
 the British on the Skybolt air-to-surface missile, the recent
 NATO meeting in Paris, and a controversy with West German defense
 minister Strauss over U.S. nuclear weapons-sharing arrangements
 for West German fighter jets, such as the 104G. A recurring
 issue was control over nuclear weapons. The discussion concluded
 with a review of discussions with Supreme Allied Commander Europe
 General Lauris Norstad over military planning for a Berlin crisis.
 One of the original planning documents was called the "Horse
 Blanket" because its many contingencies and options were described
 on a very large piece of paper. The scaled-down version, with
 fewer options, on a smaller piece of paper was called "Poodle
 Blanket."

<p>In his role as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International
 Security Affairs Nitze chaired the Military Subgroup of the
 Washington Ambassadorial Group representing the three occupying
 Western powers in West Berlin, the U.S., the United Kingdom,
 and France, but also West Germany (because of its direct interest
 in the Berlin problem). During the summer of 1962, amidst growing
 concern about the possibility that East-West tensions might
 worsen, Nitze's committee looked closely at military plans.
 Here they reviewed a British paper on the phases of Berlin military
 operations, a possible role for nuclear weapons use, such a
 "demonstration" shot, in a conflict; and the possibility of
 limited war at sea. While the Germans were interested in plans
 for selective use of nuclear weapons, Nitze was especially concerned
 about the danger of a preemptive war and uncontrolled nuclear
 use.

<p>In this interview with Alfred Goldberg (who later became chief
 historian, Office of Secretary of Defense), Nitze focuses on
 his role in strategic bombardment issues, beginning with World
 War II, especially his thinking during the late 1950s and early
 1960s about the possibility of a counterforce nuclear strategy.

<p>In the last years of the Johnson administration, Nitze rose to
 the post of Deputy Secretary of Defense, which post he left
 when Nixon came to power. Recognizing Nitze's influence and
 expertise, when the new administration assembled a delegation
 for the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT), it kept him
 on its side by bringing him into the SALT negotiations as a
 representative of the Defense Department. At the head of the
 delegation was Gerard C. Smith, who played a dual role as director
 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. Soon after the preliminary
 talks began at Helsinki, Nitze joined other delegates in sending
 "thinkpieces" assessing areas where U.S. and Soviet interests
 converged and diverged, possible scope of an agreement, and
 Soviet negotiating tactics.

<p>As part of the permanent State Department bureaucracy, Seymour
 Weiss had developed his own sources of information at the Pentagon
 and, of course, had worked with Nitze in the past (see document
 4). Here Nitze and Gardiner Tucker, the recently-appointed Assistant
 Secretary of Defense for Systems Analysis, review a number of
 SALT issues, including the form of a possible agreement, proposals
 to ban multiple independently- targetable re-entry vehicles
 (MIRVs), and the status of anti-ballistic missiles, among other
 problems. Of particular interest is the discussion of a proposed
 ban on testing MIRVs, which Nitze and Tucker rejected, and the
 differences between Nitze and Tucker over an ABM agreement,
 with Nitze and Tucker debating the merits of an agreement on
 minimum, even "zero," deployment. While Henry Kissinger would
 later regret publicly that the United States had not sought
 a MIRV ban, it is evident that Nitze and Tucker were among those
 at the Pentagon who were reluctant to see any restrictions on
 U.S. freedom of action to deploy MIRVs. On ABM deployments,
 however, Nitze was less of a hard-liner on an agreement to limit
 them sharply.

<p>Here Nitze provides a blow-by-blow and often amusing account
 of the frenzied activity, on the eve of the Moscow summit between
 Nixon and Brezhnev, which produced the final SALT agreements
 on the brink of the signing ceremony in the Kremlin. While Smith,
 Nitze and other members of the SALT team had played a key role
 in negotiating the agreements, they got "no respect" after arriving
 in Moscow to complete the paperwork and attend the signing.
 The Nixon White House, which had little interest in sharing
 credit with the negotiators, had even less interest in their
 care and feeding; in Nitze's account negotiators were left to
 fend for themselves in sometimes bizarre circumstances.

<p>In the last few years of Kissinger's tenure in government, Nixon/Ford
 d&eacute;tente policies experienced strong criticism from Republicans
 on the right, led by Ronald Reagan, as well as from some liberal
 democrats and former socialists. Some of these tendencies began
 to crystallize into what later became known as "neo-conservatism."
 Reflecting the failure or the inability of the Ford administration
 to build a national consensus in favor of d&eacute;tente, critics
 of d&eacute;tente in and out of government began to take on
 the National Intelligence Estimates, arguing that they consistently
 underestimated the severity of the Soviet military threat to
 the United States. Conservatives on the President's Foreign
 Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB) asked DCI George H.W. Bush
 to establish a special panel to assess the NIEs and develop
 an alternative analysis. Headed by Harvard Sovietologist Richard
 Pipes, the Team B panel included Paul Nitze, who played an active
 part. Other participants were Seymour Weiss and Paul Wolfowitz.
 Given Team B's ominous assumptions about Soviet intentions and
 capabilities, Raymond Garthoff later argued, "it [was] not surprising
 that it came up with more ominous findings." After Ford and
 Kissinger left office Nitze continued to play a role as a critic
 by helping to establish the Committee for the Present Danger,
 which brought together "neo-cons" and Republican conservatives,
 a number of whom would work for the Reagan administration four
 years later. 

<p>For his contribution to the arms control diplomacy of the Reagan
 administration, Nitze was best known for his famous "walk in
 the woods" that led to the agreement with the Soviets on Intermediate
 Range Nuclear Forces (INF). So far the record of that episode
 remains classified, but documents on other aspects of Nitze's
 official role during the Reagan years have been released. A
 central issue was the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) program
 and the ways and means to reconcile it with the Anti-Ballistic
 Missile Treaty, which Nitze had helped negotiate. These documents
 show some of the internal conflicts in the Reagan administration
 over the interpretation over the ABM Treaty, for example, "Agreed
 Statement D" which required consultations if either of the signatories
 sought to deploy systems using "other physical principles"-such
 as futuristic laser weapons-than those currently in use. In
 his memorandum, Platt mentioned Nitze as supporting the State
 Department's view that the Pentagon's interpretation of the
 statement was "misleading" and that a decision to reinterpret
 it "would be viewed as a cynical effort to change the rules
 mid-game." In the other memorandum, Nitze recounts his and Secretary
 Shultz's discussions with Soviet diplomats on space weapons
 (including ASAT/anti-satellite weapons, ABM treaty interpretations,
 and a ban on ship-launched cruise missiles (SLCMs).

<p>NOTES

<p>1. It is an interesting comment on Nitze's sense of priorities
 that after leaving government service, and the end of the Cold
 War, Nitze turned his attention to environmental problems as
 the issue most pressing and worthy of his time and energies.

<p>2. Strobe Talbott, The Master of the Game: Paul Nitze and the
 Nuclear Peace (Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1988), pp. 14-15.
 Another biography of Nitze is David Callahan, Dangerous Capabilities:
 Paul Nitze and the Cold War (Harper &amp; Row, New York, 1990).
 Also essential is Nitze's autobiography, From Hiroshima to Glasnost:
 At the Center of Decision - A Memoir (with Ann M. Smith and
 Steven L. Rearden) (Grove Weidenfeld, New York, 1989).

<p>3. Fred Kaplan, "Paul Nitze: The man who brought us the Cold
 War," Slate, October 21, 2004, available at &lt;http://slate.msn.com/id/2108510/&gt;.

<p>4. The text of NSC 68, perhaps the key and defining statement
 of U.S. Cold War strategy, can be found on the Federation of
 American Scientists website, at &lt;http://www.fas.org/irp/offdocs/nsc-hst/nsc-68.htm&gt;.

<p>5. In addition to these documents, the reader should consult
 these sources for additional documents bearing on Nitze's role
 in Cold War policy-making: The Foreign Relations of the United
 States series, published by the Department of State, especially
 those dealing with national security policy or arms control,
 for the Truman administrations and later; and The Presidential
 Recordings - John F. Kennedy: The Great Crises (3 volumes),
 general editors Philip Zelikow and Ernest May (W.W. Norton &amp;
 Company, New York, 2001), in particular volumes 2 and 3, which
 cover the Cuban Missile Crisis, in which Nitze played a key
 role as a member of the Executive Committee established by Kennedy
 to decide the U.S. response to the Soviet deployment of nuclear-capable
 missiles to Cuba.



