
URL: http://mccarthy.vg/articles/05/09/05/1446202.shtml
<h> McCarthy.vg Log In 

<h> Related Links 

<h> The Ready, Willing and Able Act 

<p> posted by Jamie on Monday September 05, @10:00AM   from the
 individualism dept.

<p>Like many people, I've been stunned by the stories from Louisiana
 this past week. The worst stories of all have been those about
 private groups of citizens (including corporations) trying to
 help, and being turned away by government agencies that consider
 disaster assistance their exclusive territory.

<p>Aaron Broussard's testimony of FEMA turning away tanker trucks
 full of water and boats loaded with diesel broke my heart. Cached
 stockpiles of firefighting gear went unused, and the feds stopped
 Chicago from helping and stopped the Red Cross from helping.
 A thousand volunteers from Lafayette put together a flotilla
 of five hundred boats, sailed toward New Orleans, and were turned
 around by FEMA which would not allow them to help. 

<p>One happy story of citizen action is that of Jabbor Gibson, an
 18-year-old who packed evacuees into an abandoned bus and drove
 it into Houston, permits be damned. Well done. It's a simple
 matter to drive a bus, but sometimes the important things are
 simple. I just wish New Orleans had a thousand more Jabbor Gibsons.
 

<p>I've spent a lot of the last week feeling helpless. But there
 is something you and I can do to help prevent colossal bureaucratic
 screwups like this from happening again. 

<p>We can encourage communities to draw up their own rescue and
 survival plans. We can get each city's residents involved --
 people who know the area and who have a keen interest in both
 preventing disasters and recovering from them. And we can get
 the government agencies that will be moving into disaster areas
 to work with local volunteers instead of against them. 

<p>In July, a bill was introduced to do exactly this: the Ready,
 Willing and Able Act (H.R.3565). Its goal is to "incorporate
 volunteers from the general public to assume a direct and influential
 role in community-based disaster preparedness, response, recovery,
 and mitigation." 

<p>FEMA's part of the Dept. of Homeland Security, and I'm not very
 happy with either of them right now. But if this bill passes,
 the DHS will have to start working "to help State and local
 officials provide the necessary means and infrastructure for
 the American public to volunteer to assume a direct and influential
 role" both before and after disasters. We'll even have the DHS
 talking ahead of time with the Red Cross about what they need,
 so we don't see the Red Cross, unbelievably, turned away. 

<p>In retrospect, after the last week, it seems so obvious that
 the federal government should be talking with localities ahead
 of time, and working with them after the fact. The people of
 New Orleans are supposed to be its strongest resource in times
 like these, not liabilities to be locked up in the Superdome
 because nobody knows what to do with them. The Superdome shouldn't
 have been a holding pen -- it should have been an assembly point
 for volunteers to regroup so they could get to work saving their
 city. 

<p>Now's the time to prepare for the next disaster. Well, not now
 -- obviously there are other priorities today. But in a week,
 I'm writing a letter to my Congressman, who's on a Subcommittee
 currently looking over the Ready, Willing and Able Act. I'm
 going to ask him to read it over and think about how the aftermath
 of Katrina could have played out better. If your Representative
 is on the Health Subcommittee, the Transportation Committee,
 or the Homeland Security Committee, please, after a decent interval,
 write them about this. This isn't a liberal or a conservative
 bill. Getting the federal government to work hand-in-hand with
 local volunteers, both before and after disasters, is just common
 sense.

<h>(Score:0)

<l>I am very skeptical of many of the stories of people being turned
 away. There's a lot of confusion and misinformation. For example,
 Senator Landrieu was on This Week, in a helicopter flyby, noting
 an in-progress repair job of a levee. She said, "Is that the
 most pitiful sight you have ever seen in your life? One little
 crane," and tried to make it sound like it was because of a
 lack of federal money.

<l>
The problem is, it was obvious from the two angles the helicopter
 camera showed that there was no room for another crane. The
 other side of the bank could not support a crane, let alone
 the trucks to supply it, and the side the crane was on was just
 large enough to handle the crane that was there. Further, from
 all I and she could tell, the job might be done with only one
 crane before they would be able to fix up the area to handle
 more equipment... equipment that is likely needed more, elsewhere.

<l>
In other words, perceptions sometimes don't square with the
 facts.

<l>
Anyway, that said, yes, we are all responsible for ourselves
 and out communities. We can't rely on the governments to do
 it for us. This weekend I stopped putting off finishing up my
 family's own "readiness kit" and I got most of the rest of the
 supplied I needed. In another week or two I should have it all
 completed.

<l>
I am not in favor of the bill you're talking about though, as
 the federal government has no business enacting such legislation.
 The states are perfectly capable of doing it on their own, if
 they choose to. But the idea behind it is a good one.

<l>
And not to jump on the anti-DHS, anti-FEMA bandwagon, but do
 you really want them to be the ones in charge of this? Any lack
 of action by the federal government here -- especially insofar
 as it was contrary to the continued pleas of the state officials
 -- is a clear argument for not having the federal government
 in charge at all. They should function as a support role for
 the states, not vice versa. The states should do all the management,
 all the administration, and call on the federal government to
 fill in the funding, equipment, and manpower shortages (as well
 as in coordinating aid from other states), simply because the
 states know best what needs to get done, and are therefore most
 capable of getting it done.

<h>(Score:1)

<l>We then started lugging in our food products. The foods I had
 purchased were mainly snacks, but my mother - God bless her
 soul - had gone all out with fresh vegetables, fruits, canned
 goods, breakfast cereals, rice, and pancake fixings. That's
 when we got the next message: They will not be able to use the
 kitchen. 

<l>Excuse me? I asked incredulously. 

<l>FEMA will not allow any of the kitchen facilities in any of the
 cabins to be used by the occupants due to fire hazards. FEMA
 will deliver meals to the cabins. The refugees will be given
 two meals per day by FEMA. They will not be able to cook.



