
URL: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/talking_point/4353185.stm
<p> Why penalise married people with children who want to return
 to work? By giving £2000 to single parents it will encourage
 more illegitimate, undisciplined children into society.Linda
 Patmios, London

<p> This does nothing to address the failure of the centralised
 tax and spend government billions have been spent with little
 effect. Time for a change G Hall, Newcastle

<p>Thanks very much for nothing Gordon

<p>
John Ashley, Teddington, Middlesex

<p> Thanks very much for nothing Gordon. When are the middle income
 population to see a return on all the extra tax they have paid?John
 Ashley, Teddington, Middlesex

<p> Mr. Brown has helped me with council tax, my single parent daughter
 with her child and house buying. It is on top of winter fuel
 and pension credit. I am happy.Shafiq A Khan, Doncaster

<p> Precisely why should single parents be given a £2,000 return
 to work bonus? Why should they be given an incentive to choose
 a lifestyle that will simply make many more stressed?Tim Cooper,
 Sheffield

<p> Good for families, I like the tax breaks. Families, in particular
 working families need all the help they can get. I am astounded
 by comments from people complaining that they as individuals
 are treated less favourably than those with children. When will
 these people realise that the children are the next generation
 of taxpayers that will be feeding the selfish individuals in
 their nursing homes after they have had an easy 'child free'
 life. Andrew, Loughborough

<p>My partner and I would be better off if neither of us worked
 and had 12 kids

<p>
Jo, Romford, Essex

<p> It makes absolutely no difference to me. I still cannot afford
 to buy a house in Essex. My partner and I would be better off
 if neither of us worked and had 12 kids.Jo, Romford, Essex

<p> Well, according the BBC's tax calculator, me and my husband
 are 10p a week better off. Wooohoooo, have to remember not to
 spend it all at once, Thanks Gordon! Pennie Forthem, Uckfield,
 East Sussex

<p> Labour should be encouraging companies to invest and remain
 in the UK. There are countless companies in the UK that are
 moving their operations to Eastern Europe - mainly because we
 are part of this retched Euro-party, and partly because Labour
 are more interested in attracting the voting masses - which
 are usually claiming benefits. Tut tut Mr Brown, there won't
 be many workers left soon!James Murphy, Dorset

<p> This government is riding on the back of the tough and unpopular
 economic decisions made by the Tories, which started the current
 economic upturn. Labour jumped on the bandwagon and are now
 just "fine tuning" this. By all means tax, but let's see more
 money invested to buy back the railways, form an integrated
 transport system, and stop the gridlock on the roads. Phil W,
 UK

<p> The issue is not are these plans affordable. The main issue
 is why are we continuing to pump money into public services
 that do not improve in proportion to the spending. There is
 too much mismanagement within our services, especially the NHS,
 that need to be resolved before we continue to throw money at
 the problems.Graeme McGregor, Aberdeen

<p> The usual Brown con - when examined showing that it takes more
 than it gives. He did not say that the £200 Council tax refund
 (at 61 I will not get it) would be from central public funds.
 Does this mean that local authorities have to pay back with
 the inevitable cut in local services? Peggy Reeves, Christchurch

<p> This budget is like all Labour budgets - tax those who earn
 and hand out to those who don't. After a Labour election win,
 just watch taxes rise, by fair means or foul - open or stealth.
 Fuel tax is 300%, he might well generously freeze it - for now.Rod
 Theobald, Rochdale, UK

<p>Give Labour credit for doing it better than anyone before

<p>
Dave Deacon, Liverpool, England

<p> Greed rules here - want, want, want... He cannot please you
 all. But we have the best consistent economic climate for generations
 and you still moan. Put the Tories in and watch the recessions
 begin - again... Of course the Budget will have an eye to the
 forthcoming election. What Chancellor would not? Thing is, we
 have a sound economy with very low inflation. Enjoy it. Give
 Labour credit for doing it better than anyone before.Dave Deacon,
 Liverpool, England

<p> If this chancellor really was fiscally prudent as he so often
 claims he would publish full accounts like the major companies
 do so we could all see how well he is spending our money! If
 he did this instead of giving with one hand and taking back
 twice as much as soon as we turn our backs people might trust
 him. This budget does nothing for the accountability or transparency
 of government. Ask yourself would you buy a used car from this
 chancellor?Adam, Boston, USA

<p> This chancellor has raised extra revenue mostly by stealth and
 his attack on With Profits Policies in this budget is yet another
 example. He started off the disastrous fall in Company Pension
 Funds by abolishing the tax refunds to them on dividends several
 years ago. It is not just the stock market fall which caused
 these short falls. Gordon Brown was the person who started off
 the whole situation. Amazingly no one seems to hold him to account
 for it!Ken, Beccles, Suffolk

<p> Beware of this chancellor! It's not what he says in the budget
 speech, but rather what he doesn't say, as the relevant extra
 fine detail is all but hidden in the small print of the budget
 document for publication at a later date.David, UK

<p> This is a well tried chancellor who has kept this country stable
 for over nine years. I lost my house in the last Conservative
 government; have people forgotten the interest rate hikes then?
 I wish I had the same chance then as people have now, at least
 they are not watching rates going up by 1,2,and 3per cent!Sean
 Cronin, Crewe

<p>When will Gordon realise this cursory rise in stamp duty is out
 of date before it even comes into force

<p>
Paul, Poole

<p> As a first time buyer in the south I have just spent £140k.
 You can't buy much for less than this. When will Gordon realise
 this cursory rise in stamp duty is out of date before it even
 comes into force! A vote winner that will not win many votes.Paul,
 Poole

<p> Personally, I'm ecstatic about the budget - I'm just about to
 buy a house that falls under the £120k threshold, so I no longer
 have to find the £1000+ that I was going to struggle to pay.
 It's certainly made house buying much more accessible for my
 partner and I.RB, Warwick

<p> I don't see how raising the stamp duty limit will make homes
 more affordable. Surely the £1000 or so saved will only encourage
 buyers to bid higher thus absorbing any saving. The only people
 who will benefit will be the sellers who will gain an extra
 £1000 on their sales price. Daniel Meadowcroft, Stockport, England

<p> As a hard working single person of 47 on a low income trying
 to keep a roof over my head, the Budget has done nothing for
 me. Maybe I should have another child. Then when he/she leaves
 school it will be time for me to collect my pension. That seems
 the only way I shall benefit from this budget. Dale, Nottingham

<p> Why are the comments so negative? Gordon Brown's economic policy
 has given people more jobs with a higher wage; funded drastic
 health and education improvements; and has made Britain a strong
 economic force again. It seems to me that the phrase 'we've
 never had it so good' is very appropriate!Tony, Sheffield

<p>Freezing indirect taxes again is just a gimmick to get votes

<p>
Nigel, Sussex, England

<p> Who is Gordon Brown trying to kid? This Budget has little to
 do with the general economy, but everything to do with the general
 election and a third Labour term in office. It is all very well
 helping pensioners with their council tax bills, but what about
 working families on low incomes. Freezing indirect taxes again
 is just a gimmick to get votes. Watch what happens to them if
 they win, God help us.Nigel, Sussex, England

<p> Again only pensioners with little or no savings are being helped
 by pension credit. Those of us who worked and saved for our
 retirement lose out. If I had my life again I would be a dosser!Mrs
 G Wilson, Blackburn, England

<p> Is it any wonder people of my age (26) don't vote? There was
 absolutely nothing in that budget that would help struggling
 students - its always elderly people that get the assistance
 which as much as I don't begrudge it, there are other members
 of society too. Nina, West Wales

<p> Good for pensioners but no change for me. Stamp Duty change
 is of no significance in Hertfordshire!Adrian Mansell, St. Albans
 UK

<p>Mr Brown has abandoned hope of impressing the working voter

<p>
Andy, Cannock, UK

<p> It looks like Mr Brown has abandoned hope of impressing the
 working voter, disillusioned with the Labour Government, and
 is targeting the sizeable pensioner population. Sadly, it might
 just work. As for the £120k marker for stamp duty, how on Earth
 does this deter the buy-to-let vultures who buy "cheap" houses
 sub £120k and therefore again crushing the hopes of the first-time
 buyer?Andy, Cannock, UK

<p> The Chancellor is the best thing, perhaps the only good thing
 about this Government. Over 12 years of growth and dwindling
 unemployment is testament to the quality of Mr Brown's judgement.
 Unfortunately supporting the US in Iraq by massaging intelligence,
 and threatening to move Mr. Brown after the election leaves
 very little to recommend New Labour in the election. Well done
 Gordon, I wish your colleagues had as much vision!Tony Franks,
 Bangor, Wales

<p> Oh yes, the pension crisis affecting all of us workers, whether
 we have children or not. Of course Mr Brown would prefer us
 not to remember the £4bn tax income per year he swiped from
 pensions in his very first budget. The first of very many tax
 hikes we have had to bear during the last two terms from these
 expert spin doctors. Steve, Croydon, England

<p>We should all see it for what it really is, a pre-election bribe

<p>
Adam Lawler, London, UK

<p> We should all see it for what it really is - a pre-election
 bribe aimed at diverting attention from the choices this government
 has made by taking this country to war. If we all remember this,
 we should be able to see that this bribe was not thought through,
 and that we will all eventually pay for it out of our pockets.
 Adam Lawler, London, UK

<p> This is a bold budget and one that, for primary schools, has
 been long overdue. At last a Government has set its sights on
 the future - its legacy - on not on the day to day.Anthony David,
 London

<p> Mr Brown obviously doesn't think much to his fellow countrymen.
 He is blatantly offering a quick fix solution, which can easily
 be changed should Labour win the next election. Oh and thank
 you Mr Brown for saving me £1000 on Stamp Duty but how am I
 to actually afford a house of that price anyhow?James, Cardiff,
 Wales

<p> Inheritance tax makes me feel sick. Why is it that a person
 who has worked and paid income tax all their life then has to
 have that money stolen by the government when they die? This
 is so disgusting that I can't believe the government get away
 with it.Jonathan Yong, Glasgow, Scotland

<p>Why do I have to subsidize people with no family and financial
 planning?

<p>
TG, Uxbridge, UK

<p> I am on a very good salary at 55K a year because I work hard
 and studied hard in the past. What is my reward? Paying £16750
 in direct taxation and more on indirect. That is my reward from
 Gordon Brown. Why do I have to give 49% of my earning on direct
 and indirect taxes? What do I get back? Why do I have to subsidize
 people with no family and financial planning? TG, Uxbridge,
 UK

<p> Mr Brown has listened to the pensioners on the issue of Council
 Tax but he has not listened to the overall need to raise the
 basic pension to £105 per week on a permanent basis. He is quite
 willing to give 17 year olds £75 to stay in education but does
 he realise this is what the pensioners have to live on permanently.
 If he can give this away then he can afford to raise the pensions
 to a decent liveable income. I think the pensioners would have
 welcomed this much more instead of a one off payment of £200
 towards their Council Tax bill.Linda Banks, Stoke on Trent Staffordshire

<p> What about students? Bring back the grant I say. Many students
 go on to get good jobs after they have graduated, and the money
 is put back into the country through income tax anyway. I also
 object to the extra support given to families. My partner and
 I do not intend to have children, and also both work very hard.
 Where do we benefit? All we do is pay for everyone else! Gemma,
 Cheltenham

<p>The OAPs get the rebates because they are expected to vote

<p>
Alan, Worcester

<p> To all these people complaining that there is nothing in the
 budget for them, I would urge them to vote. Why should the parties
 make people under 30 better off when they believe that they
 don't vote? The OAPs get the rebates because they are expected
 to vote. You can vote and moan but you can't moan if you don't
 vote.Alan, Worcester

<p> How can Gordon Brown promise free bus travel when, since the
 de-regulation of buses, the Government has no control/involvement
 in running and charging for them. Or is this just another way
 of getting public money into the coffers of the Government's
 favourite private companies. Just like with the railways. Oops,
 they are the same companies in most cases, aren't they????Steve
 Tymms, Welwyn Garden City, UK

<p> He's done it again. Given with one hand and clawed twice as
 much back with the other. You have to hand it to Gordon Brown.
 He certainly knows how to pick a pocket or two. How long are
 the British public going to put up with it? Probably for another
 term at least, because most are so easily fooled.Allen Hanley,
 Stoke, UK

<p> He is going to save money by moving 7800 civil service jobs
 out of London. Would these 7800 be part of the 100,000+ that
 have been artificially created by Labour bureaucracy, and that
 are costing the taxpayer millions of pounds and increasing the
 already huge shortfall in the future pension budget?Teena, England

<p> After listening to GB talk after the budget it made me sick
 to hear the phrase 'hard working families' at least 6 times.
 Not one mention of the 'hard working single people' who are
 also helping the economy but get nothing in the budget for them.Peter
 Ward, Wallsend

<p>How is it that council tax and winter fuel concessions for pensioners
 do not kick in until the age of 65?

<p>
John and Pat, Haverfordwest

<p> Women statistically earn less and retire on smaller pensions
 than men. How is it that council tax and the winter fuel concessions
 for pensioners does not kick in until the age of 65? This will
 adversely affect retired women in the 60-65 age bracket especially
 those on their own? Isn't this discrimination?John and Pat,
 Haverfordwest

<p> Once more, former British residents of the UK now living in
 Commonwealth countries are stuck with pensions that have never
 been increased since they retired - e.g. I retired 19 years
 ago, so my pension remains at the 1986 level. If I lived in
 the US or any number of other foreign countries, my pension
 would rise the way increases are made to UK pensioners!John
 Murray, Seabright, Canada

<p> Affordable maybe, but headline-grabbing and therefore blatant
 electioneering, certainly. Luckily, the "grey vote" he seems
 to have aimed one measure at consists of people who have seen
 all this before and are probably the least easily-fooled part
 of the electorate.David Hazel, Fareham, UK

<p> Has anyone else detected regional discrimination in the raising
 of the stamp duty threshold? Surely this favours people in the
 North of England, and does nothing for anyone looking to get
 on the ladder who lives in the South East.Anthony Green, Bracknell

<p> How much of our money has the government wasted (and continues
 to waste) on our illegal war in Iraq? The NHS hospital where
 I work is £7million overspent and facing savage cut backs, which
 will affect patient care. We would have more than enough to
 spend if Mr Blair wasn't spending it on his military adventures
 with George Bush. Barry, Bedford

<p>The tax breaks that Brown offered are not here to stay

<p>
Will Harris, London

<p> The biggest issue for me is that the budget has been funded
 by bringing forward the tax receipts from oil, but this can
 only have a one-off effect. This surely confirms that the tax
 breaks that Brown offered are not here to stay but are one-off
 election pledges and that further tax rises will be needed.Will
 Harris, London

<p> Surely the people of this country are not daft enough to think
 we're not going to be taxed even more after the election to
 pay for all this. James, UK

<p> Who cares about budgets any more? There are now so many different
 ways in which tax is levied in this country that it is impossible
 to see the link between working hard and gaining the reward.
 I hate the whole tax system and all its complexities.Alistair
 Laing, Inverbervie

<p> The usual Brown style of bombarding the layman with quickly
 delivered and incomprehensible statistics, whilst furthering
 his own political aims, and disguising the hidden costs behind
 his package of measures.Richard Thorpe, Banbury, Oxon

<p>There won't be any economy except that run by media studies and
 psychology graduates!

<p>
John, St Andrews

<p> Education and the knowledge economy? Applications to study computing
 at UK universities are in free-fall and departmental closures
 will not be far behind. We've lost Engineering, Science, Modern
 Languages and now Computing. There won't be any economy except
 that run by media studies and psychology graduates!John, St
 Andrews

<p> I have a pension and I work. I think the pension should not
 count towards my personal tax allowance, I have already earned
 that. I do not want a bus pass as I don't have a bus I can use.
 How about a petrol voucher? I have bad hips and have to use
 my car.Jane Parkins, High Wycombe, Bucks

<p> Could someone explain what use is free buses when our village
 does not have a bus service or any other type of public transport?Jo,
 Hampshire

<p> Yet again, there is absolutely nothing here for the single person.
 As for the extra benefits for the aged - shouldn't this be means-tested?
 There are pensioners out there who already don't know what to
 do with their heating allowance and are financing holidays with
 it or lavishing gifts on grandchildren.Gwen, Anglesey, Wales

<p>Buy-to-let people edging first time buyers out of the market
 yet again

<p>
Helen Bulled, Exeter, Devon

<p> I think that doubling the stamp duty threshold is only going
 to lead to a short term speculative boost for houses priced
 under £120,000. Buy-to-let people edging first time buyers out
 of the market yet again. This when we were just beginning to
 hope for a decent reduction in house prices. What a stupid,
 narrow-minded policy that will probably lead to a short term
 rise in house prices in some areas.Helen Bulled, Exeter, Devon

<p> What use is free bus travel to those who rely on a metro rail
 system or underground? Do those on council tax benefit and not
 paying council tax get the £200 as well? Lots of devil in the
 detail taking the gloss off the headlines.Rob Kerss, Wallsend,
 England

<p> I am a married with 3 children all in full time education. I
 work full time and my earnings are only £11,500 per year as
 my husband looks after the children so I would like to know
 exactly how much we are going to have and to have the tax credits
 explained more clearly. But I am slightly pleased that he has
 helped the pensioners, though he could have done more.Jan, Leeds,
 West Yorkshire

<p> To be or not to be a pensioner... I am a woman of 61 years of
 age and therefore entitled to a state old age pension and a
 free bus pass (in my part of the country the buses are few and
 far between). But I am not a pensioner when it comes to a £200
 reduction on the poll tax! Brenda Black, Cumbria, England

<p>We have seen nothing but increase and increase

<p>
Ted Theis, Chapel-en-le-Frith

<p> The chancellor has ignored the voters aged between 55 and 65
 yet again. We have seen nothing but increase and increase since
 this government has been in power. We have had our married allowance
 removed, we have had our mortgage allowance removed, we have
 had increased fuel charges... We have had increases in taxes
 by increased NI contributions, we have had increases in council
 tax bills. It's time this government looked after all the people,
 not just young families. Ted Theis, Chapel-en-le-Frith

<p> Stamp duty at £120,000 means it makes sense for a family to
 buy two homes next door to each other to live in rather than
 just one. Seriously, yet another budget whereby working (married)
 people without families subsidise other people's children. Michael
 Lever, Ledbury, Herefordshire

<p> Young people in the south of the country are struggling more
 than anywhere else in Britain to get onto the property ladder.
 How does raising the threshold to £120,000 help them? Lynne
 Johnson, Wimbledon, England

<p> To be honest, I don't think it's going to affect me at all.
 I don't some, I don't drink much, I'm not a pensioner and I
 don't have a young family. Inheritance tax planning is all in
 place and I have no intention of moving home. So, for me, a
 non-event. It most certainly will not influence my vote at the
 coming election.Terry, Epsom, Surrey, England

<p> I am a full time carer, having ceased paid employment in order
 to care for my wife who is blind, wheelchair-bound and incontinent.
 We live on her disability allowances, my carers' allowance and
 income support, which is reduced in response to every raise
 in her allowances. I see nothing in this budget that either
 compensates for our enforced collapse of life hopes or provides
 for any dignity or self- worth.Chris Lund, Coventry, West Midlands

<p> A budget to try to turn the minds of the northern families,
 those who have been abandoning Labour. There is nothing in this
 at all for those of us who work hard in the south, or indeed
 anywhere else where house prices dictate the extra hours worked.Ian,
 Epsom, Surrey

<p> My husband and I have 2 jobs each in order to enjoy the kind
 of lifestyle my taxes supplement for the people on Benefits.
 The only thing we have to look forward to is higher rates of
 tax after the election. I think those claiming benefits should
 do community work. They should earn their money like the rest
 of us.Tracy, Barnsley, South Yorkshire

<p>They take more, more, more and never give anything back

<p>
Nick, Brighton

<p> They will smash us with the council tax re-evaluation due to
 the false high house prices they engineered. They have helped
 themselves to billions of people's pensions and we having nothing
 to show for all our tax we already pay. They take more, more,
 more and never give anything back. Not in currency and not in
 effort. What a scandalous group of people.Nick, Brighton

<p> Don't people have short memories? Other than one small blip
 this government has done more for Senior Citizens than the Tories
 ever did. Not just this year but each year they have been in
 office. This is in no way a one off bribe for the Senior Citizens
 - think about winter fuel, free TV licences and all the other
 items now available. My parents were worried when Labour first
 gained power, but they see the benefits of a caring government
 and are pleased with what has been provided for them. If the
 Tories got back in these benefits would be swept aside and all
 they would get would be a state pension increased, yes, but
 the sum total would be less than they now get under Labour.
 Well done Mr Brown keep up the good work.Nigel Greensitt, Salford,
 UK

<p> Gordon Brown has had an impeccable record as Chancellor of Exchequer,
 whether it is lowering the level of poverty in Britain, or in
 increasing public expenditure. Although people are claiming
 that the budget "has done nothing for them", does it not reflect
 Labour's previous successful changes and shows that the party
 are not electioneering but are catering towards the stability
 of the country?Alasdair, London

<p>I would have really liked to see some incentive to save introduced

<p>
Justin Rowles, Southampton, UK

<p> My problem is that I can't see any reason in this budget for
 anyone to save. Bearing in mind the tax on pension dividends
 since 1997 (which is really going to bite in thirty years' time)
 I would have really liked to see some incentive to save introduced,
 but no, just the same old means testing idiocy that means saving
 for a rainy day is money wasted. Brown is betting the farm -
 our farm - on the next ten years.Justin Rowles, Southampton,
 UK

<p> All these people whining that they can't buy a house in the
 South East for £120,000. No-one is forcing you to live down
 there, and the only reason house prices in the area are so high
 is that you're collectively stupid enough to pay them.Jen, Manchester,
 UK

<p> Never mind the pensioners - what about measures to help young
 people get a foothold on the housing market?Ann Tomlinson, Ashford,
 Middlesex

<p> We cannot all expect giveaways but if Labour listened to the
 Tories on waste and bureaucracy there could be vast savings
 and with better services (hospitals, schools and police). As
 for "cutting debt in poor countries," this is not the answer
 as many are run by corrupt officials and politicians. Give interest
 holidays and assistance with agriculture, storage and distribution.
 Give medical aid and help with education, but not money. Actually
 do the building for them, but with British companies.Michael,
 Plymouth, UK

<p>Stamp duty isn't keeping me out of the housing market - prices
 are

<p>
Nick, Nottingham, UK

<p> Surely increasing the stamp duty threshold will increase property
 speculation, thus raising house prices still further? Stamp
 duty isn't keeping me out of the housing market - prices are.Nick,
 Nottingham, UK

<p> After the stealth taxes applied by this government you would
 think they would have plenty of money with which to buy votes,
 but it seems that this budget has offered very little by way
 of compensation for what has been taken away in the first place.Lee
 Tomkins, Somerset, England

<p> As a renter in London, it is brilliant to see Gordon help me
 so much. I can't wait to find a nice little flat for less that
 £120k and avoid the stamp duty!Martin, London

<p> My wife and I work equally hard, if not harder, than the low
 income families, that Gordon Brown likes to trumpet, in order
 to attain a comfortable standard of living. People like us get
 nothing now and it will be us that will have to pay after the
 election when the deficits pile up. It sickens me that the government
 is now resorting to paying people to go out to work. Why not
 just stop benefits and force people back to work? Dan Brown,
 Rainham, Kent

<p>The Southeast will continue to support the other regions 

<p>
Greg, London, UK

<p> As usual, the Southeast will continue to support the other regions
 without any relief or consideration. I'm a first time buyer
 and my stamp duty bill is £9300. On a planet with 6 billion
 people, why is the government so intent encouraging population
 growth and, furthermore, why do I have to pay for it?Greg, London,
 UK

<p> What a bunch of self-interested whingers you all are. I am sick
 of people saying "well there's nothing in it for me". He has
 to raise funds by whatever means he deems to be equitable in
 order to meet public expenditure. If the electorate want lower
 taxes they can vote for a party that promises it, but they will
 have to accept cuts in public services that will inevitably
 accompany them Clive Andrews, Worcester, UK

<p> Many disabled people are again ignored in the budget. They are
 charged over and above council tax for services for amounts
 well in excess of inflation rates - but their benefits only
 rise in relation to inflation Laurence Walsh, Sheffield, UK

<p> How can it be that further education students can expect to
 receive up to £75 per week when university students get a loan
 of around £4000, out of which they must pay for their accommodation
 (approx. £75/week), food, and for many students their £1150
 fees?Jon, Essex

<p> A budget that will get the working class people voting for a
 third Labour term and will appeal to the young to start the
 housing market up and will enable families to have a better
 lifestyle. Pensioners will be really pleased and with Petrol
 taxes being frozen he will help the voters to turn to Labour
 as the Government of the peopleDevaney, Leeds

<p>A £200 rebate on council tax is nothing when the council tax
 will probably increase by that much anyway

<p>
Rob, Droitwich Spa

<p> Michael Howard hits the nail on the head. Brown has always been
 a "how to get money out of the public quietly" type of chancellor.
 Labour have finally lost it. Pensions should have gone up in
 line with inflation. A £200 rebate on council tax is nothing
 when the council tax will probably increase by that much anyway.
 Does he think we are stupid?Rob, Droitwich Spa

<p> So, no recognition of the fact that the flat rate stamp duty
 is one of the unfairest taxes of all time. Raising the 1% limit
 to £120,000 is canny - it barely reduces the income coming into
 the Treasury. However it doesn't help anyone living in the South
 East or London, unless they want to live in a garage. Many of
 the so called "hard working families" living the in south east
 are looking at £250k plus for a simple 2 or 3 bed - why is this
 still at the 3% rate?Phil Knox, London, UK 

<p> The highest tax burden in 25 years and Brown still oozes self-adoration!
 This government will keep increasing taxes and wasting it. That
 is their philosophy - their only problem is that they think
 they spend it wisely.John Lloyd, Anglesea, Wales

<p> I'm 27, single and own my own house. I work hard and run my
 own small business in my spare time. And what do I get out of
 this budget? Nothing! I'm sorely tempted to quit work entirely
 and start claiming benefits. I might actually be able to save
 a bit then!Iain Hicken, Swindon, UK

<p>There's nothing in the budget to encourage green initiatives
 

<p>
Ken Walton, Lancaster, UK

<p> Brown is banging on to the G8 about the need to make the environment
 integral to the economy, and yet there's nothing in the budget
 to encourage green initiatives and discourage the polluters.
 Labour seems very keen to talk about the environment, but reluctant
 to actually do anything about it.Ken Walton, Lancaster, UK

<p> So Brown is raising income tax allowances in line with "inflation".
 Is this going to be the real rate of inflation as expressed
 by the old retail price index or his new inflation rate that
 excludes housing costs. If it's the latter, then we are looking
 at yet another tax increase.Paul Cossey, London

<p> With duty on fags and booze going even higher I'm considering
 leaving my job in investment banking and becoming a smuggler
 instead. It just got even more lucrative.Jonny, England

<p> The pension payments in this country are the lowest in Europe
 - it is about time everyone had a reasonable increase. I could
 not afford to pay a full stamp and so received a pension of
 £2 a week! Also the tax level should be raised so an average
 person doing overtime, for example, should not have to be hit
 by 40% tax. It is a struggle to live in this Country - I am
 in the process, like so many others, of moving out of this country
 to spend my retirement abroad. Maureen O'Brien, London England

<p>That the old and the less well off are targeted is to be welcomed

<p>
Bob Richardson, Welwyn

<p> Yes, it is an election winning budget and I am so glad its not
 the sort of pre-election massive giveaway that some Chancellors
 have imprudently bribed the electorate with in the past. That
 the old and the less well off are targeted is to be welcomed.
 A strong economy and a strong Chancellor. Keep up the good work!Bob
 Richardson, Welwyn

<p> I'd like to know where in the South east you can buy a house
 for under £120k! I just feel this Budget is a ticking time bomb
 waiting to explode taxes skyward in 2006/7.Tom, Gillingham

<p> Brown's done it again! A budget that makes sense. It is not
 perfect but accusation of 'vote buying' will not stick.Beruk
 Berhane, Eastbourne

<p> Mr Brown had not given pensioners £200 rebate he has only given
 it to households with 2 over-65s. The budget only helps non-saversMr
 A Mellish, Retford England

<p> Already it starts; ME, ME, ME! "It (the budget) did nothing
 for me, it was unfair to me, I paid my stamp I should get more."
 Politics is about managing scarce resources and this chancellor
 has been better than most at this balancing act. Richard, Camden

<p>All he has done is move the goalposts

<p>
Simon, London

<p> Why can't the stamp duty tax be linked to average house prices?
 Mr Brown has again failed to confront the problem of houses
 just over the stamp duty limit... all he has done is move the
 goalposts.Simon, London

<p> A £75 per week bribe to go to school after the age of 16, followed
 by £4,000 per year that you have to pay to go to university.
 Mind you, it keeps the unemployment figures down.Adrian Mugridge,
 Chester, UK

<p> I'm not directly affected by the Budget itself as I am a carer
 for my grandparents, but doing a quick calculation I reckon
 that my grandparents will be £4 a week better off (due entirely
 to the council tax refund) which as I read as a one off payment.Harry
 Hayfield, Ffos-y-ffin, Wales

<p> I am a single person on a wage of £15000. What will this budget
 do for me? Nothing. As usual. I can't afford a house on my income
 so stamp duty doesn't bother me and I've got no kids. The only
 thing that changes is it's now slightly more expensive for me
 to go the pub on a Friday night. Thanks a lot Gordon!Victor,
 Manchester

<p> Why raise personal allowance on income tax then take it away
 on tax restrictions?Henry R. Davies, Dudley, West Midlands

<p> Can someone please explain how Gordon Brown gets inflation at
 1.6% when utility bills have risen on average by 20% and council
 tax on average at 5%? Sally Wood, Princes Risborough, Bucks

<p> How can it be right that a young person who decides to stay
 on at school after the age of 16 will receive £75 per week 'pocket
 money', which is more than the amount of old age pension for
 a single person, who has paid NHI contributions all their life?
 Dudley Holley, UK

<p>A cynically election-focussed budget

<p>
Steve Brereton, York, UK

<p> A cynically election-focussed budget. I am amused that there
 seems a blatant attempt to buy off the over-65s with substantial
 fuel and council tax relief. Whoever told the Chancellor that
 raising the stamp duty threshold to £120k was a good thing hasn't
 checked the market recently. If there is anywhere left that
 has any substantial housing stock that is under that price,
 I'd love to know.Steve Brereton, York, UK

<p> Concerning the proposed Council Tax refund of £200 for pensioner
 households. Will this only apply if both pensioners are 65 or
 over? That is what I believe the Chancellor was saying, but
 I'm not clear. If so, why must both pensioners be over 65. What
 if one pensioner is over 65 and the other between 60 and 65,
 why would the 'younger' pensioner be excluded? Annie Woodgate,
 Christchurch, Dorset

<p> By failing to increase the higher threshold for stamp duty,
 Gordon Brown is demonstrating his continuing tendency to introduce
 stealth taxes by fiscal drag. The recent year-on-year double-digit
 increases in house prices means that many family homes worth
 £250k and over will attract a tax that was originally intended
 for the rich.Paul, Sheffield, UK

<p> Why again is there the comment about hard working families?
 My Husband and I have grown up children, and cannot claim tax
 credit of any kind, as my wage is just over £20,000 gross. He
 also works for the National Minimum Wage, is put on short time
 working in winter with no recompense, and has had no rise for
 4 years over and above National Minimum increases. This Government's
 policies has seen the value of my income drop drastically due
 to above inflation increases in everyday expenses like Council
 Tax/Electricity/Insurances etc.Carol Macmillan, Fort William

<p>I would have thought that the Chancellor would like to make some
 lasting changes in what may be his last budge

<p>
Eleanor Crane, London

<p> I would have thought that the Chancellor would like to make
 some lasting changes in what may be his last budget. Inheritance
 Tax is an unjust tax and should be scrapped immediately. Raising
 the threshold to £300,000 makes little or no difference. Gordon
 Brown had the opportunity to make a real difference this time
 and he missed it again!Eleanor Crane, London

<p> The news on stamp duty is excellent, I've just saved £1100.
 I'm not sure why people aren't happy with the current economy.
 Do they remember high unemployment and a 15% interest rate?Stephen
 Daly, London, UK

<p> How I object to the term "hard working families" It excludes
 "hard working individuals".Craig Whittaker, Stratford on Avon,
 England

<p> Considering the government is so worried about alcohol abuse,
 it would have been a better idea to increase the taxes on booze
 - 1p on a pint is hardly going to make people think twice about
 how much they spend on beer every week now is it?Gary, UK

<p>You get nothing off this Chancellor without paying for it somewhere
 else 

<p>
Mark A, Manchester

<p> My girlfriend and I decided to take the plunge and plough our
 savings into buying our first home last summer for £85k. Believe
 me, the stamp duty really hurt us - nearly £1k to Gordon Brown
 for having the audacity to buy our own house. So is the raising
 of the threshold an admission that it is a completely unfair
 tax - particularly for first time buyers? Can I get a refund
 for what I shelled out to Mr Brown? Don't count on it - you
 get nothing off this Chancellor without paying for it somewhere
 else. I just hope the electorate can see this, because the next
 budget is going to hit us hard if Labour is still running the
 show. Mark A, Manchester

<p> Thanks Gordon. As a first time buyer I will continue to wait
 until the widely predicted 20%+ fall in house prices occurs
 so I can take advantage of your oh-so-generous change in stamp
 duty.Tim, Canterbury

<p> With regard to pensioners, once again the Government has penalised
 savers. We are encouraged to save and provide private pensions
 for our retirement, but when we do we are denied a decent pension,
 the additional benefits only being available to those who could
 not, or chose not to save.W R Simpson, Edinburgh, Scotland

<p>His budget will do absolutely nothing for people without kids

<p>
Phil, Newcastle, UK

<p> As usual it's family this and child that. This budget will do
 absolutely nothing for people without kids, I'm frankly sick
 of being ignored just because I have no interest in children.Phil,
 Newcastle, UK

<p> Before everybody moans that this budget doesn't go far enough,
 think about how better this is for the majority of people after
 this budget compared to the previous budgets. As long as the
 predictions for growth stay firm, it looks like a good next
 economic cycle!Ashley Smith, London

<p> I am 57, married, self-employed, and disabled with epilepsy.
 Gordon Brown has down nothing for me, or my generation.Barry
 Hayden, Croydon, Surrey

<p> So income tax allowances only go up by inflation again - another
 disguised income tax increase. Colin Shepherd, Farnham Surrey

<p> There is nothing in it for me. I haven't started a family yet.
 The Stamp duty threshold increase really annoys me because I
 have recently moved house and therefore I had to pay, whereas
 I could have missed it now. The house price problem is not new
 and because of this attempted bribery he has lost my vote. This
 threshold should have raised years ago.Alan Fradley, Worcester

<p> OAP's and first-time buyers will not protect the streets of
 England. Where is the extra budget for more police recruitment?Eamon,
 Manchester

<p>Doubling the stamp duty threshold is a bold move 

<p>
Jon Bowman, Frimley

<p> Doubling the stamp duty threshold is a bold move from Gordon
 Brown and fantastic for me as a 1st time buyer. However, it
 still reeks of pre-election promises and I still won't be voting
 labour!!Jon Bowman, Frimley

<p> As a first time buyer who has just had a £116,000 offer accepted
 last week, I'm just a little bit chuffed with the news that
 the stamp duty threshold has been raised! Now to work out where
 to spend the £1k saved!!!Tim, Norwich

<p> Is 1p on a pint of beer and 4p on a bottle of wine really going
 to pay for all this??? We had better get drinking! Clifford,
 Biggleswade, Beds

<p> Raising the stamp duty to £120,000 does not even have an impact
 on the majority of the South of England. Increasing it in line
 with inflation year on year from when it was first introduced
 is the only fair way to deal with Stamp Duty.James Perrett,
 Bath

<p>Things really aren't as good as Brown says

<p>
David Ball, Wokingham, UK

<p> There you have it. Nothing of consequence for the ripped-off
 tax payer. Did you see all the stealth taxes he's frozen? Air
 passenger tax, insurance premium tax, climate change levy, aggregates
 levy and company car levy. If the economy was as good as he
 has claimed and tax revenues so high, he could have lowered
 income tax. So things really aren't as good as Brown says.David
 Ball, Wokingham, UK

<p> I've never understood why Stamp Duty was charged at a flat rate.
 For example around the £250k band a difference of £1 in the
 purchase price means £5000 difference in Stamp Duty. Why doesn't
 Gordon just put it on the same basis as income tax, i.e. 0%
 for the first £120k, 1% for the next £130k etc.? Tax doesn't
 have to be taxing Mr Brown! I blame all those special advisors
 who've never lived outside of Westminster or student politics!David
 Maddock, Hagley, UK

<p> The Budget has been a complete waste of time: we'll end up paying
 more and more taxes as the government wastes more and more on
 bureaucracy. What makes anyone think things will suddenly change?
 It is about time we had a new governmentOH, Maldon, England

<p>Cutting stamp duty will not help first time buyers

<p>
Stephen Hucker, Cheltenham

<p> I believe cutting stamp duty will not help first time buyers,
 but may only help the seller by stimulating the market. The
 only way to help first time buyers is to lower the cost of housing.
 I think Mr Brown, wishes to look like he is helping first time
 buyers, without upsetting home owners. As someone looking to
 buy my first flat, this will not help me, and may make it harder.Stephen
 Hucker, Cheltenham

<p> Not everyone is concerned with how the Budget affects them directly
 - some of us can look at the wider picture. I think that the
 changes to the stamp duty threshold will make a big difference,
 particularly in Scotland and the north. Caitlin, Glasgow, Scotland

<p> Why is the South East excluded from the stamp duty benefit?
 £120,000 isn't realistic for anyone in my position.  Sophie,
 Surrey 

<p> Selling off our national assets and giving the money to children,
 has he gone mad?  Tom, Norwich 

<p> It's hard to knock his provision for the elderly and for school-aged
 children. However, for those of us that are not old yet, it
 would have been far more reassuring to see something to address
 the overwhelming pensions crisis facing UK employees and employers
 alike.  Andy , Leeds 



