
URL: http://pbskids.org/rogers/all_ages/thoughts1.html
<p> I really miss you and God will always be with you. Forever and
 ever.You were great when you did your show.p.s. We love you
 and will miss you. I really like to see you in heaven.Also you
 are great and you are the most smartest man in the world. And
 I am 10 years old and I wrote this.  Taylor - Watauga, tx

<p>
 I too grew up listening and watching the show. Being 35 years
 old, I still watch and remember the fun and laughter Mr. Rogers
 always brought: rekindles my youth and helps me feel like a
 kid.  Bryan - Ft. Bragg, NC

<p>
 Hi, my name is Katie Elizardi. I am 20 years old, and as many
 others I grew up with Mr. Rogers. I remember always watching
 him after Seseme Street. I believe that Mr. Rogers had an incredible
 influence to the person I am today. I am a successful freshman
 in college in Alabama. Through the years I have gained very
 high standards with my peers. I have adapted the knowledge that
 there are other ways of dealing with issues and emotions other
 than sex and drugs. As every other college campus - the sororities
 and fraternities all have that one mentor to help them keep
 their priorities straight, and check up on their morals - making
 sure they are making healthy decisions. I feel that Mr. Rogers
 was that role for the nation. Though I hope that the day will
 not come soon, I hope that when I have kids, I can still find
 Mr. Rogers still to be on TV to be their neighborhood friend
 because even though Mr. Rogers has passed does not mean that
 his lessons need to also. His lessons are legendary and have
 played a positive role in many people's lives.  Katie - New
 Orleans, La

<p>
 I too want to express my love for Mr Rogers and how much he
 will be missed in our home. My children and now my grandchildren
 have watched and loved his shows. Thank you for allowing him
 to stay on for so many wonderful years.  Connie - Emmett, ID

<p>
 To Mister Rogers' Neighborhood: I love yor neighborhood becasue
 everyone is so nice and kind to each other. Thanks from Katrina
  Katrina - st.louis, mo

<p>
 To Mister Rogers, I am sorry that you died. My daughter who
 is almost 1 loved your show so much that she wants to watch
 the same ones over and over.  Emily - Nashville, TN

<p>
 I'm 28 years old and now the mother of a 2 1/2 yr old and I
 amazed by how Mr. Rogers can still touch young lives (including
 my own!). What a pleasure it continues to be to share in this
 wonderful program with my son - it has also brought back such
 wonderful memories of my own childhood. Mr. Rogers should certainly
 be a benchmark for most shows to strive towards. Thank-you for
 continuing to show such a quality show - I look forward to sharing
 it with my next born due in June. Mr. Rogers continues to be
 such a blessing ... praise God for such a caring man.  Ramak
 - Albuquerque, NM

<p>
 Mr. Rogers, Even though I am almost 14 I still like your show.
 It is so funny.  Betsy - Hendersonville, NC

<p>
 I really felt sad when I heard you dided P.S I am 8 years old.
  Courtney - New York, 

<p>
 Hello! I am a female that of the age 13. Mr. ROgers was a hero
 for many small children but not many teenagers. I respected
 him and looked up to him. I miss him dearly even though I have
 never met him. I remember when we got home from church, we would
 have lunch and then I would watch Mr. ROgers until I fell asleep.
 I learned many things from him, like:how to make sneakers or
 make a wagon. THe character I liked the best on his show(besides
 him) was mr.mcfelie. He was awesome!  Mary Kate - Waunakee,
 Wi

<p>
 hi mister roghers this is mikey im 4 and a half and i just
 wanted to say hello  mikey - Columbus, 

<p>
 My name is Nikki and I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Rogers
 when I worked at Idlewilde Park in Mr. Rogers Neighborhood of
 Make-Believe in Ligonier, PA. I was the lucky person who got
 to give Mr. Rogers his trolley ride through our "neighborhood".
 After the ride was over Fred gave autographs and I even got
 my picture taken with him. He was such an inspiration to everyone,
 especially to me. His legacy and kind words will live on forever.
  Nikki - Acme, PA

<p>
 You rock!!! You will live on forever. I still watch in the
 summer, because I don't miss it because of school. They need
 reruns after school, or put the show on dvd. Mr. Roger's you
 and the whole neighborhood of make-believe rocks!!!!  Ciara
 - South Amherst, OH

<p>
 I am 7 years old,I rily was sad when I heard that you died.
  Yao yao - Baltimore, MD

<p>
 I was so sorry to hear of his passing. I had lost this address,so
 it has taken a while to get this sent. I watched Mr. Rogers
 since I was a little girl many years ago. My daughter grew up
 with the neighborhood of make-believe, soon she will be going
 to college to become a kindergarten teacher. We will miss Mr.
 Rogers with all of our hearts.  Robyn - Zephyrhills, FL

<p>
 I really like you people.Even though mister roger's died. I
 still love him so. please put some flower's on his grave.  Nigel
 - Delray Beach, Fl



