
URL: http://ruby.inq7.net/roadtrip/display.php?fld=tourguide/2004/oct&art=1012tourguide1.php
<p> <!-- DisplayAds("showbizandstyle.inq7.net/roadtrip","Top,Middle,Position1,x01,x02,x03,x04,Right!Top");
 //--> 

<p>Thai beaches full 2 years after tsunami

<p> KHAO LAK, Thailand--Tourists are finally returning to Thailand's
 Andaman coast two years after the devastating tsunami, but any
 attempts to commercialize the tragedy are being snubbed by holidaymakers.
 

<p> NEW YORK--Five years after the September 11 attacks brought
 the US air travel industry to its knees, New York on Wednesday
 for the first time saw the number of air passengers reaching
 100 million in a year. 

<p>FROM THE FABULOUS city of lights, Paris, to the grand peaks,
 valleys and lakes of the beautiful mountains of the French Pyrennees
 and to the foie gras and truffle rich countryside of Perigord,
 it was a chef's journey of discovery, flavors, culture, wines
 and that off-chance that someone might ask you to cook a lechon
 for them. Stranger things have happened, believe us. 

<p>Here are some culinary high points that Cyrille Soenen and I
 experienced on our last trip to France. Drum roll, please.

<p>Restaurant 'Aux Lyonnais'

<p>The correct way to eat bread is to break it open and with your
 eyes closed, inhale and take in the aroma. This was sage advice
 from eight-year-old Cassandra, daughter of Cyrille and Anna
 Soenen. We were having lunch in Alain Ducasse's Restaurant "Aux
 Lyonnais" in Paris. A typical bistro featuring the specialties
 of Lyon by chef de cuisine David Rathgeber, Cyrille's old friend
 from his days in The Ritz Hotel and also at Le Grand InterContinental
 Hotel in Paris.

<p>
 <!-- DisplayAds("showbizandstyle.inq7.net/roadtrip","Top,Middle,Right,Bottom!Middle");
 //--> 

<p>Chef David's menu was small, well-chosen and featured what was
 only in season. Golden chanterelle or girolle mushrooms, a rarity
 in our neck of the woods, was in a few items, the best being
 an egg dish gently cooked in a bain marie with a rich creamy
 sauce. Artisan sausages and pates or charcuterie in distinct
 Lyon style were presented with delicious ratte potatoes, boiled
 eggs and a simple vinaigrette. I tried the rillette of rabbit
 with foie gras and marinated vegetables. Simply flavored but
 very rich and satisfying. The sour dough bread toast that came
 with this was excellent! Cyrille had truffled spring vegetables
 that had baby radish, haricot vert, spring onions and baby carrots
 served in a small pot. A typical spring dish seasoned with fleur
 de sel (flower of salt)and freshly ground pepper.

<p>For the main course we chose roasted sea bass with fennel and
 a big rib eye steak with fresh mushrooms and baby potatoes and
 crayfish with quenelles. The sea bass dish was accompanied by
 both roasted and fresh fennel. The crunchiness of the fresh
 fennel shavings gave texture to the mildly flavored fish and
 the sweeter cooked fennel underneath. The steak was a hefty
 piece good for two served in a hot pan surrounded by girolle
 mushrooms and cooking juices. A deceptively simple dish but
 very hearty in flavor and substance. The crayfish quenelles
 were airy and light floating on crayfish essence. Cyrille liked
 it very much.

<p>We tried the Saint-Marcellin for the cheese course and I loved
 it. It had that great funky aroma and flavor. We ate it by scooping
 the cheese out of its terra cotta container with a shallot-rubbed
 toasted baguette. It was very good. For our desserts we had
 a sampling of what was on the menu. Cherry clafoutis and a side
 of granita was a nice dual temperature dish that we tried. I
 really enjoyed the rhubarb and strawberry crisp. It's a warm
 compote of fresh rhubarb and strawberries topped with a sweet
 biscuit/cookie crust and some homemade ice cream. We also had
 a chocolate hazelnut dessert that was rich and nutty.

<p>This was a classic bistro lunch. The season dictated the menu
 and it made perfect sense. The flavors were uncomplicated and
 honest. The vegetables were naturally sweet and pronounced.
 The mushrooms were delicate and meaty. The sausages and pates
 were light and filled with tradition. The bread, oh my god,
 the bread. C'est superbe! This bistro rocks! What a pleasure
 to have experienced the cuisine of chef David Rathgeber.

<p>Ledoyen

<p>After spending the day with my old friends Mickey, Minnie, Donald
 and Goofy in Disneyland Resort Paris where adult happy meals
 consist of a hotdog, pommes frites (French fries) and a beer,
 we were off to see the wizard-the wonderful wizard of the three-star
 Michelin restaurant, Pavillon Ledoyen, chef des cuisines Christian
 Le Squer. Chef Le Squer was Cyrille's mentor when they worked
 in the kitchens of both The Ritz and Le Grand InterContinental
 Hotel.

<p>There are only a handful of three-star Michelin restaurants in
 Europe and Ledoyen in Paris is one of the frontrunners. The
 restaurant is on what Cyrille proudly calls the most beautiful
 street in the world, the Champs-Elysees, I couldn't agree more.
 A lush and blooming garden surrounded the restaurant and screened
 the busy traffic close by. The interiors were subdued and pleasing.
 It had a quiet, modest yet elegant atmosphere around it. Nothing
 ostentatious or overboard, the dining room was classically French
 and well appointed.

<p>Joining us for dinner was Cyrille's wife, Anna, and his father,
 Jean Claude. We were served champagne cocktail drinks and small
 bites of savory morsels or amuse bouche. The foie gras in napoleon
 and the smoked salmon rolls were exceptionally good. Menus were
 offered to each one of us, but only Cyrille's folder had prices
 because he was the host of our party. It was still spring and
 the repertoire was a showcase of the best of the season. Quality
 over quantity was the rule here. There was an a la carte selection
 and an offer that read "The discovery of specialties-for your
 great pleasure, allow chef Christian Le Squer to be your guide
 through a special five-course menu." We bought it!

<p>All four of us took the degustation of chef Le Squer. And we
 were all quietly excited.

<p>The breads they presented were amazing in variety and out of
 the ordinary. One was a deep black bread roll made with squid
 ink and shrimp essence. Another was almost like puff pastry
 with thousands of leafy layers studded with smoked bacon. The
 breads were fantastic!

<p>Then dinner was served. The first course was a mousseline of
 herring tamara (roe) with avocado, tomato aspic and olive oil.
 It was refreshing, lightly tart, which balanced with the bold
 flavor of the fish roe. Served cold, the dish was a nice jump-start
 for the taste buds. For the second course, chef Le Squer presented
 a simple plate of roasted langoustine from Brittany. The waiters
 served the citrus emulsion foam a la minute to each of our plates.
 As the foam is spooned over the hot langoustine it sizzles and
 slowly melts a glaze. The fresh tartness of the emulsion was
 a perfect contrast to the sweet almost delicate flavor of the
 langoustine. A trickle of basil puree on the side of the plate
 gave an herbal and aromatic bouquet to what I consider to be
 by far one of the most delicious dishes I have tasted. I wanted
 to do back flips of joy.

<p>Spider crab was served for our third course. This was an interesting
 dish. It was a deconstruction and a reconstruction of the spider
 crab. Sounds daft? Okay, let me explain. It's a spider crab
 shell filled with crab meat, crab aspic (gelatin) and caviar;
 topped with crab essence foam and garnished with crab fat "chips"
 and seaweed sprouts. It was both beautiful and delicious. From
 a chef's point of view this is not the easiest thing to do.
 The fourth course was lobster from Brittany (like the langoustines)
 with sweet pea custard and jurancon wine sauce. The flavors
 were subdued and clean. The lobster was delicious.

<p>An interesting green apple sorbet with cauliflower foam was served
 next. By this time we were ready for our sixth course, dessert!
 Warm plates were served, but instead of a souffle we had a beautiful
 and perfectly sliced sea bass with fresh almonds, girolle mushrooms
 and a green herb jus. The fish was almost airy, light and flaky.
 The sauce was grassy and fresh in flavor. The perks of knowing
 the chef has its advantages, and Cyrille knew chef le Squer
 very well.

<p>On our seventh course we weren't surprised when chef Le Squer
 sent out one of Ledoyen's signature specialties. Braised turbot
 on crushed ratte potatoes and a truffle butter sauce. It was
 indeed special. The turbot fillet was perfection marrying nicely
 into the luxurious sauce of truffles and the roughness of the
 potatoes for a subtle textural contrast. Genius.

<p>Somehow when the red wine was being poured into our glasses,
 we knew chef Le Squer still had something to show us. Something
 meaty. I said duck and Cyrille said lamb. Cyrille won. Lamb
 loin from Limousin served with a navarin jus and a meticulous
 pasta gratin structure. The meat was tender and the sauce punchy
 with flavor worked well with the lamb.

<p>Small mignardise (pre-dessert bites) were served and desserts
 followed. We had two desserts to try. One was a grapefruit sorbet
 served in between layers of crisp basil croquant with hot fried
 pastry puffs on the side and fresh grapefruit segments and another
 was a crispy chocolate souffle&#130; with spun sugar and chocolate
 tuile cigarettes. I loved both desserts.

<p>After a few moments we finally met the wizard, chef Christian
 Le Squer. He was very happy that we enjoyed the feast and he
 stayed and chatted with us for some time.

<p>What an excellent meal. What an excellent experience. Christian
 Le Squer truly is a wizard and in a class all on his own.

<p>Fiesta in Perigord

<p>A fiesta was planned by Cyrille's brother, Thierry Soenen, in
 his home in Lamelette in the Perigord region. Thierry had lived
 in the Philippines a few years ago, working as a furniture designer
 in Cebu. He has come to visit Cyrille and Anna many times and
 knows our culture very well.

<p>For this fiesta he really wanted to have Cebuano style lechon
 together with the typical regional fare of Perigord. Being true
 presentados, Cyrille and I convinced Thierry to go for gold
 and make it a true Filipino fiesta complete with a full Filipino
 menu to go with the lechon. Thierry was easily convinced and
 agreed.

<p>We quickly made the menu and came up with a list of Pinoy specials.
 We had to be ready for substitutes because finding the right
 ingredients wouldn't be as easy.

<p>So for appetizers we made fresh lumpia using Vietnamese rice
 paper as our wrapper. We made kinilaw na isda using salmon and
 monkfish. A salad of chopped vegetables with duck confit and
 spicy toyo vinaigrette. This was inspired by the Chop Chop Salad
 in Uva. For the main courses we cooked a beef short rib adobo
 complete with fried kamote as a garnish. Chicken inasal was
 also in the buffet and we even made sinamak-style cider vinegar.
 Sotanghon guisado was cooked with tenga ng daga and French mushrooms
 and patis. Ilonggo style garlic fried rice or kalo kalo was
 done using achuete oil for that "faux" saffron look.

<p>The piece de resistance was of course the lechon. It was Cyrille's
 first time to do a lechon. For me, technically, I "watched"
 people do lechon since I was a boy in Negros. So that experience
 has made me become an "expert." We stuffed the pig with all
 red onions, garlic, green onions, lemongrass, bay leaves, black
 peppercorns and plenty of rock salt. Drove a long metal spike
 through and got ready to roast the pig. Jean Claude and his
 friend Michel Chevalier, whom we christened Le Chef de Lamelette,
 were in charge of the roasting pit. So there under the shade
 of the pear and apple trees, a French-born pig was lovingly
 roasted by a French chef to be served in a Pinoy dinner buffet.
 Funny. Really.

<p>Sixty people came for dinner. Relatives from as far as Paris
 drove down for the fiesta. Old friends and new ones shared long
 tables filled with beautiful wild flowers, candles and capiz
 shell lanterns all done by Bernard. Like the food, the decor
 and feel of the party was a true Pinoy and French fusion.

<p>And everybody had a grand time. For some it was the first time
 they tasted Filipino food and they loved it. Then it was time
 for the grand finale of Cyrille's masterpiece lechon. There
 was applause, oohs and aahs. We made three sauces for the lechon-sinamak,
 a fruit chutney and whole grain mustard. Everybody was thrilled
 to see and finally taste the lechon.

<p>Cyrille, Anna, Thierry and I had a blast putting the dinner together.
 Just like here at home and everywhere else, food brings people
 together. Repasts grand or simple are always far more wonderful
 when shared with the company of friends and loved ones. Cooking
 then becomes an ultimate pleasure.

<p> <!-- DisplayAds("showbizandstyle.inq7.net/roadtrip","Top,Middle,Right,Bottom!Right");
 //--> 



