
URL: http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2005/01/26/notes012605.DTL&nl=fix
<h>And oh my God, you think, how these people's lives must be one
 screaming firehose of inexorable, nipple-torquing, kidney-stabbing
 pain. I mean, really. 

<p>Because then you read about how James Dobson, the cute little
 founder of the cute little ultraconservative rabidly Christian
 happily neo-homophobic Focus on the Family, actually stood up
 and proclaimed, to the media, to the world, with a straight
 face, with no sense of irony or shuddering humiliation or an
 overpowering sense that he was, in fact, contributing quite
 nicely to the overall violent oatmealy ignorance of the planet,
 came right out and announced that the wildly popular and much-loved
 SpongeBob Squarepants cartoon character is, actually and truly,
 probably gay. 

<p>And therefore, of course, SpongeBob is a dire threat to all childrenkind
 and must be avoided at all costs lest the wee ones watch the
 cartoons and become overwhelmed with a mad desire to wax their
 chests and buy a new Miata and drink cocktails made with lemonade.
 More or less. 

<p>And why? Why is the adorable yellow sea sponge suddenly considered
 to be contributing to the mental and spiritual and genital degradation
 of millions of innocent children? Because he's a hyperactive
 none-too-bright short-attention-spanned spazzball of lovable
 non-sequiturial nonsense who induces rabid devotion among children
 and gay men and straight adults alike? Why, no. Not quite. 

<p>It's because the frantically animated sea creature is now appearing,
 alongside noted pagan cartoon perverts Barney the Dinosaur and
 Winnie-the-Pooh and the Rugrats and Bob the Builder, in a nonprofit
 video sent to 60,000 schools and designed to promote that vile
 demon called, ahem, tolerance. And diversity. 

<p>(Our fair SpongeBob was singled out, by the way, because of his
 noted popularity with gay men, perhaps given his propensity
 for flamboyant exuberance and a love of show tunes and his very
 gayly named pet snail, Gary. Or something). 

<p>So then, the cute part: To the vast sentient population of the
 planet, people like those in Focus on the Family and the American
 Family Association (the other terrified little group that found
 SpongeBob to be sexually dangerous) are, well, just plain sad,
 small, lost in a world where everything is a threat and everything
 wants to stab at their mealy souls and everything reeks of debauchery
 and demonism and copious amounts of residual Astroglide. 

<p>And we look at such people and we shake our heads and sigh, trying
 to understand how excruciating it must be to go through life
 feeling as though you're stuck like a pinned bug to a perverted
 universe that can't be trusted, one that they desperately hope
 will be over real soon now, just like the "Left Behind" books
 promise, so they can forget how miserable and lost and distressed
 they feel and so they may finally leave their not-so-secret
 homosexual fantasies behind and drive their big manly SUVs to
 the Promised Land. 

<p>And toward them, we normally just roll our eyes and shake our
 heads and smile, and feel a fleeting moment of sympathy before
 shrugging them off like you would a 2-year-old throwing ice
 cream at a tree. 

<p>But now, the not-so-cute part: Much like that other small-minded
 cluster of clenched nonbrains over at the Parents Television
 Council, the very tiny but weirdly vocal group that single-handedly
 managed to hurl the FCC into fits of hysteria regarding naughty
 swearwords and exposed nipples in the national media, these
 groups are having one helluva moment right now, one influential
 and dangerous time in the cultural limelight. 

<p>These are the minuscule and shrill groups that, perhaps in a
 period not seen since the Puritans forbade dancing and kissing
 and the color fuchsia and all pleasure of any kind, have a shockingly
 powerful pull on American society and who reputedly helped tilt
 the election toward Bush and who increasingly have the ear of
 Congress -- a Congress, it must be noted, that's increasingly
 crammed with evangelical Christians and homophobic nutjobs and
 Tom DeLay. 

<p>Which is to say, much as most of us on this planet laugh and
 feel pity and shake our heads at the odd paranoia and dread
 these cheerless people wallow in on a daily basis, somehow,
 some way, they have stolen the reins. For the moment. 

<p>They now have a semblance of voice, a hook, have warped the ear
 of the government and embarrassed our national common sense
 and soiled the clean white sheets of healthy happy debauchery
 and perversion. 

<p>They have jammed a black seed of paranoia and dread into the
 tired soil of American consciousness, and have made it their
 lifelong duty to ensure that the seed festers and erupts into
 a gnarled weed of hate and ignorance and bad missionary-position
 sex with the lights off. 

<p>All of which somehow reminds me of the Spanish Catholic Archdiocese,
 also recently in the news after undergoing an amazing spasm
 of lucid awareness in how, for a brief blip in time, the church
 officially allowed that condoms might be OK. 

<p>Did you read that story? About how Bishop Juan Antonio Martinez
 Camin, in Spain, announced that condoms are actually pretty
 good for, you know, controlling disease and inhibiting the spread
 of HIV? Miss that one? It's understandable. Went by pretty fast.
 In fact, the astounding stance lasted exactly 24 hours, just
 enough time for the Vatican to get a whiff of it and for the
 Vatican's Archbishop of Hateful Sexless Myopia to make a nasty
 phone call to Spain, promptly threatening the Spanish church
 with nothing short of castration and excommunication and genital
 warts. 

<p>Whoops, nope, we were wrong, muttered the Spanish church the
 following day. Condoms were evil all along. Condoms are wrong
 and condoms don't actually prevent the spread of HIV and we
 don't care if they save lives or prevent pregnancy or STDs because
 condoms promote -- what is it again, cardinal? -- oh, yes, "immoral
 sexual conduct." 

<p>Oh you warped and sad little men. 

<p>And lo, the Vatican, still viciously influential in much of Europe
 and Africa but basically dismissed, as far as sex and gender
 are concerned, by modern believers in the States as an outdated
 archaic sexist ignoramus, stomped its callused foot and reiterated
 its deadly doctrine and stabbed at the heart of progressive
 humanity. Again. 

<p>Which in turn reminds me of Bush addressing a cluster of antichoice
 activists a few days back, touting the vicious and degrading
 "culture of life," which translates directly as, "We aging sexless
 white Christian males shall hereby stop at nothing to slap women's
 rights back to 1955 and chip away at female procreative choice,
 all while preventing stem-cell research from ever saving the
 life of a single cancer or Alzheimer's patient. God bless."
 Ah, progress. 

<p>And then, in the next ironic breath, Bush announced that his
 warmongering administration is ready to request another $80
 billion from Congress to further the violent and treasonous
 and unwinnable war on Islami-- er, on non-Christia-- er, women--
 er, gays-- er, decent grammar-- er, dictators who control our
 oil-- er, "terror." 

<p>Aha. Promote the "culture of life" while asking for billions
 more to assist in the killing of all foreigners who hate us
 more every day. Onward, Christian soldiers. 

<p>Note the connection. Note the blood-red thread of fear and dread
 and homophobia, the brutal irony throughout all these stories.
 Shrill extremist sects and small-minded leaders with too much
 control, saddled with self-righteous and outdated doctrines
 that refuse to allow the culture to progress, to laugh, to moan
 in joy and sticky happiness. 

<p>Note the people who look at hilarious children's cartoons and
 see only sinister mind control, who look at their fellow human
 souls and see only an army of debauched heathens, who look (reluctantly)
 at their own genitals and see only a gnarled clump of pain and
 confusion, who look up at the beautiful blue sky and see only
 a massive canopy of daggers. 

<p>How incredibly sad. And, for right now, how very, insidiously
 dangerous. 

<p>Mark Morford's Notes & Errata column appears every Wednesday
 and Friday on SF Gate, unless it appears on Tuesdays and Thursdays,
 which it never does. Subscribe to this column at sfgate.com/newsletters.



