
URL: http://blogs.wsj.com/brussels/tag/brussels/tag/google
<h>Google Pairs With Belgian Precursor

<p>A global network of neatly-ordered, carefully-interlinked facts
 available upon a simple request. Sound familiar? No, it’s
 not the Internet. Picture instead 16 million index cards in
 a giant warehouse, bustling secretaries in fin-de-siecle frocks
 and requests delivered by telegram: the Mundaneum, a Belgian
 “paper Google” which won its co-founder the 1913 Nobel Peace
 Prize. Now the two organizations are pairing up.

<p>“I’m delighted to see this relationship,” Belgian Prime
 Minister Elio Di Rupo said at the launch of the co-operation.
 “Especially because I was education minister when we found
 these archives in a rotting warehouse in Brussels and moved
 them to my home city of Mons.”

<p>Google and Belgium have had a relationship for a while; the company
 has spent €250 million on a data center in St. Ghislain,
 near Mons, in the French-speaking region of Wallonia.  Traditionally
 associated with rusting heavy industry, the region is reinventing
 itself as a “digital innovation valley,” with, as Mr. Di
 Rupo put it, “information as the black coal of a new age.”
 (It was coal that made the region an industrial powerhouse and
 drew his parents, among other immigrants, to live there.)

<p>Back in 1895, Belgians Paul Otlet and Henri La Fontaine envisaged
 a paper archival system of the world’s information  based
 on thrilling new technologies such as decimal classification,
 index cards and telegrams. Their goal, according to today’s
 organizers, was to “preserve peace by assembling knowledge
 and making it accessible to the entire world.”

<p>They built a giant international documentation centre in Brussels
 where they would answer questions from all over the world,
 until the system gradually declined following the death of the
 founders and the destruction of many index cards in World War
 II. A faithful hardcore of followers hid them away, however,
 until they were rediscovered and moved to their new home in
 Mons.

<p>It’s not entirely clear what the new partnership will entail,
 with no plans to scan the index cards so far, unlike the huge
 project undertaken at Ghent University, where some 300,000 books
 published prior to 1871 have been put online by the Internet
 search giant.

<p>There are plans for a special exhibition later this year and
 a lecture series by Internet pioneers as part of Google’s
 wider aim to preserve the heritage of the information age. (It
 recently donated half a million pounds to Britain’s wartime
 codebreaking center Bletchley Park).

<p>“Unfortunately, we tend to forget our inventors,” Thierry
 Geerts, Managing Director of Google Belgium, said as he switched
 between French and Flemish to present the project. “We want
 to honor and promote the important European pioneers of computing
 and the Internet.”

