
URL: http://tv.msnbc.com/2013/05/2013/05/21/apples-massive-cash-hoard-and-the-danger-of-soaring-corporate-profits
<h>Apple&#8217;s massive cash hoard, and the danger of soaring corporate
 profits

<p>Apple CEO Tim Cook testified today in Congress about how his
 company managed to evade billions of dollars in taxes. Most
 of the questioning has been about tax loopholes. But that’s
 only part of the story. The other part is perhaps more important,
 and more destructive.

<p>In the United States, we’ve seen notable growth since the recession.
 We are very sluggishly moving back from the lows of the financial
 crisis. Even that modest progress stands in stark contrast to
 the rest of the world, which is, by and large, still suffering.

<p>The major flaw of our recovery has not been the pace, although
 certainly it could have been much faster. Instead, the major
 flaw is distribution. The economy is growing, but corporations
 and the richest Americans are capturing the lion’s share of
 the proceeds from that growth. You’ve likely heard a lot about
 the one percent&#8211;in the first year of the recovery, they
 captured 93% of the income gains—but the story of America’s
 corporations is even more troubling.

<p>We’ve seen systemic inequality in our country growing for decades,
 even before the latest financial crisis. Between 1979 and 2007,
 income for the top 1% grew by nearly 300%, while it grew by
 just 18% for the bottom quintile of earners. This is, of course,
 worrisome in itself, and not just as an economic problem. Our
 founders feared the political consequences of yawning inequality
 and class conflict, of allowing wealth to aggregate in the hands
 of the few. Referring to people who own property and those who
 don’t, James Madison wrote in 1787:

<p>The most difficult of all political arrangements is that of so
 adjusting the claims of the two classes as to give security
 to each, and to promote the welfare of all.

<p>We are seeing the consequences of systemic, growing inequality
 play out now in our politics. Inequality has been slowly corroding
 the basic project of collective governance for three decades.
 A more recent and perhaps even more troubling problem, though,
 is the aggregated prosperity of American corporations.

<p>Neoliberal economic theorists will tell you that keeping corporate
 taxes low is good for the economy. The more money corporations
 have, they say, the more they will be able to reinvest in the
 economy, make new things, create new jobs and grow opportunity
 broadly for all. But that’s not what’s happening right now.
 Since the early 2000s, corporations are gobbling more cash than
 ever before, and rather than reinvesting it, they’re just
 sitting on it.

<p>No one knows quite why. There are a number of plausible theories.
 Paul Krugman told Up in February that it may be as simple
 as this: corporations are “making so much money, they don’t
 know what to do with it.” At the end of 2012, for example, Apple
 had accumulated nearly $140 billion in cash, and was doing
 absolutely nothing with it.

<p>In a consumption-based economy,  this trend is untenable. When
 people make money, they buy things; demand for products goes
 up, so companies make more products, hire more people, and so
 forth. That is the basic model upon which our economy is founded.
 But right now it is broken. A cog somewhere is not turning,
 but no one knows which cog it is.

<p>In the meantime, corporate profits continue to soar. The higher
 corporate profits soar and the more cash corporations hoard,
 the less they reinvest in the economy. Workers, meanwhile, make
 less and less. The divergence between employee compensation
 and corporate profits, as illustrated in the chart above, is
 at an all-time high.

<p>The economic and political consequences of this divergence cannot
 be overstated. One simple first step would simply be to try
 to re-capture some of those aggregated profits by raising taxes
 on corporations, and by taxing off-shore profits. Right now,
 we have a peculiar system that taxes the profits corporations
 make here on American soil, but allows them to pay only foreign
 taxes on profits they make overseas. Which brings us back to
 the story of Apple.

<p>The moneyed class and their patrons in Washington are arguing
 that we can fix the corporate tax problem not by taxing off-shore
 profits, but by allowing corporations to repatriate those profits back
 to the U.S. without having to pay American taxes. They argue
 that bringing that money back to the U.S. will allow corporations
 to reinvest it in the economy. We may lose some potential tax
 revenue, they say, but we’d make up for it in all the new
 jobs and economic activity we would get.

<p>Except, of course, the experience of the last decade or so tells
 us otherwise.

<p>Apple argues that its off-shore profits should only be subject
 to off-shore taxes. As if those off-shore profits had nothing
 to do with America. Of course, they do. Apple may sell products
 across the world, but the company is based in America for a
 reason. Apple enjoys, indeed exploits, countless legal and economic
 benefits by operating in America, benefits Apple wouldn’t
 enjoy anywhere else: basic legal protections, a judiciary that
 safeguards and enforces the rule of law, an intellectual property
 regime that affords generous—in fact, overly broad—protections
 for new ideas and innovations, a world-class system of higher
 education, a (somewhat) open immigration policy, reliable security,
 an advanced infrastructure for business development, and countless
 other benefits  from operating in a functional, developed society
 with a genuine social contract.

<p>As Elizabeth Warren famously put it, “There is nobody in this
 country who got rich on his own.” In the same way, there is
 no company in this country that got rich on its own. Corporations
 like Apple are hampering the economy and corroding our political
 system by hoarding hundreds of billions of dollars in cash.
 They owe the American people back payments.

